THE WEST PAKISTAN
BUILDINGS & ROADS, DEPARTMENT CODE
(Applicable to the departments of Buildings, Road, irrigation,
Communication, Central Public Works; Posts and Telegraphs in the Province of Punjab, Sind
N.W.F.P. & Baluchistan)
(APPLICABLE TO ALL CONCERNED THROUGH-OUT PAKISTAN)
Reproduced with Correction
By
HAMID ALI	ZAKA ALI
(M.A., M.Ed., LL.B.)	(ADVOCATE)
(Exponents of Civil Service, Labour, Taxation & general Laws)
Hemmed & up to date
Up to-date Amendments Incorporated
REVISED EDITION
1989
THE IDEAL PUBLISHERS
(PUBLICATIONS OF LAW BOOKS)
POST BOX NO. 3514
KARACHI- 74800
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CHAPTER I-ESTABLISHMENT
Paragraphs
A. Organization
B. Recruitment of Officers	1.1-1.3
      I. General	1.4-1.6
      II. Authorities	competent to make appointment	1.7
      III. Scale of pay of Engineer Establishment...	1.8
C. Promotions-
I. General	1.9.1.10
II. Indian Service of Engineers	1.11-1-18
III. Specialist Officers	1.14
IV. Petty Establishment	1.15
V. Records of service, annual reports and
Recommendation rolls
Engineer Establishment	...	1.16-1.18
Subordinate Engineering Service	...	1.19
Clerical and Draftsman Establishments...	b20
Accountants	...	1.21
General	...	1.22
D. Punishments, Resignations, Removals, Dismissals And Deaths-
I. Treatment of serious cases of misconduct...	1.28
II. Punishments
HI. Suspensions	...	1.27
IV. Resignations	...	1.28
V. Dismissals	...	1.29-1.34
VI. Deaths	...	1.35-1-37
E Duties of officers of the Building and Roads
Department-
I. Chief Engineer	...	1.88-1.41
II. Regional Engineer officer	...	1.42-1.43
III. Superintending Engineer	...	1.44-1.51
IV. Superintendent of Work	...	1.5
VI. Divisional Officer	...	1.53.1.69

        VI Subdivision Officer	...
     F. Allowances, Advances and Compensation-
I. Allowances	...
II. Advances	...
III. Compensation for lots of property	...
     G. Leave	. .
     H. Examinations-
       I. Training and examination of Engineers...
      J. .Professional examination	. .
     I. Employment on Local Fund Works	...
     J. Transfer
I. General	...
II. Inter-provincial transfer	...
        III. Inter-departmental transfers	...
     K. Employment of Temporary and Work Charged Establishments:
I. Temporary establishment	. .
II. Work charged establishment	.	..
     L. Police and Other Guards	...
     M. Medical Establishment-.
I. General	...
II. Pay and allowances or Medical establishment
..
III. Leave, retirement and resignations of
Assistant Surgeons and Sub Assistant
Surgeons	...
        IV. Removal of Assistant and Sub-Assistant
Surgeons	...
 N. Miscellaneous Rules-
I. Personal	...
II. Complaints against officials	...
III. Procedure in regard to law suits	. .
        IV. Security deposits	...
V. Stationery and forms	. .
        VI. Destruction of official records	. .
        VII. General rules of office procedure
      VIII. Establishment returns.

CHAPTER II-WORKS
A. classification of the Operations of the Building and Roads Department	...
   B. Administrative Approval and Technical Sanction. .
   C. Requisitions by Civil Officers
        I. General	.	..
II. Procedure in regard to original petty works costing Rs. 2,500 or less	. .
III. Procedure in regard to original works costing more than Bs. 2,500	...
       IV. Procedure in regard to repair	...
       V. Limitation of sanction	...
D. Preparation of Projects-
       I. General	. .
       II. Original works-
        (a) Civil buildings	•	. .
        (b) Roads	..
        (c) Town water supply projects	..
       III. Repairs-
        (a) General	. .
        (b) Special rules	..
  E. Contracts and Works Orders-
        I. General	..
       II. Contract document	..
       III. Tenders	.	. .
       IV. Security for performance of contracts ...
        V. Provision in contracts for imported stores..
       VI. Enforcement of terms of contract	..
       VII. Officers empowered to execute contracts. .
      VIII. Piece work	...
 F. Sale and Acquisition of Land-
(l) Sale of Government land and immoveable Property	..
        (m) Acquisition of land-
(n) General	. .
(o) Land held for military purposes	. .
  (p) Acquisition of land by private negotiation	2.8
G. Execution of Works-
     - I. Commencement of works	2.89--785
       II. Scope of sanction	...	986
       III. Lapse of sanction	...	2.87
       IV. Alterations in design daring construction...	2.88-2.89
V. Miscellaneous rules for the execution of work	..	2.90-2.97
       VI. Advances to contactors	...	2.98
      VII. Sanitation on extensive works.	..	2.99
VIII. Information to be given to the Survey Department	...	2.100
      IX. Execution of works by civil Officers	2.101
H. Deposit Works
I. Disposal or Estimates-
I. Office of record for estimates	. .	2.107
II. Communication of sanctions to estimate to the Audit officers	...	2.108
J. Supplementary and Revised Estimates-
        I. Supplementary Estimate	...	2-109
       II. Revised estimate	2-110--2413
III. Utilization of completion report o statement as revised estimate	2.114
 K. Completion Reports, Certificate and Plans
       I. General	2.115
       II. Works executed on behalf of other Department	2.116-2^ 118
      III. Record and other drawings and plans	2.119-2.123
      IV. Office of record	...	2.125
     V. Preparation and Disposal of Completion. .	2.125
ANNEXURE TO CHAPTER II
A. Delegation of Powers under Financial Rules and powers of re-appropriation-
B. Power Delegated to various officers-.
C. Rules for the payment of compensation-
D. Grant-in-aid for contribution works-

CHAPTER III- PUBLIC BUILDINGS
   A. General
        1. General rules	..
       H. Fixtures and furniture-
        (a) Fixtures	..
        (b) Furniture‘s	. .
       III. Purchase and sale of Government buildings. .
IV. Hire of office accommodation for officers of the Buildings and Roads Department . .
       V. .Renting of building	. .
       VI. Taxes	. .
VII. Sanitary, water-supply and electrical installations	. .
      VIII. Inspection of public buildings	..
      II. Registers of buildings	..
       X. Plans and Buildings	..
 B. Residences for Government Officials-
        I. General	. .
II. Special rules relating to expenditure on Residences of His Excellency the Governor. .
III. classification of residential Building and assessment of rent	..
IV. Bent-Rules for Government Buildings used as residences	. .
        V. Periodical Review of concession	. .
ANNEXURE TO Chapter III
        Rent of residential buildings (How to be
calculated)
CHAPTER IV-MISCELLANEOUS RULES REGARDING Office WORKS EXCLUDING ACCOUNTS PROCEDURES
    A. Initial Records or Account	..	4.1
        1. Muster Rolls	. .	4-2-4.4
        H. Measurement Books	..	4-5-4-8
HI. Progress report of measurements on works executed under contract	. .	4.9
    B. Custody of cash	. .	4-10-4.11
    C. Cashiers	..	4-12-4.14


D. Stores-
     I. General
    II. Acquisition and manufacture of stores
   III. Reserve of stock	,
    IV. Stock-taking
    V. Disposal of stores
    IV. Mathematical instruments	.
Paragraph
     4.15-4.17
   4.18-4.25
     4.26-4^27
     4.28-4-31
     4.36-4.37
    4.38-4-39
E. Storekeepers
F. Loss of cash
G. Rules for Divisional Workshops
H. Transfers of Charges.-
     I. General
     J. . Divisional and Sub-Divisional Officers
K. I. Reconstitution of Executive or Sub Divisional charge
    L. . Ocher officers
     1. Heavy expenditure in March
4.40
4.41 442-443
4.44-4.48
4.49-4-56
4-57
4.58
 4.59
CHAPTER POWERS OF SANCTIONS OF THE WEST PAKISTAN
GOVERNMENT IN BUILDINGS AND ROADS DEPARTMENT AND
OF THE AUTHOIRES SUBORDINATE TO IT
A. General-
II.Commencement of work in anticipation of detailed estimates of the complete project.    5.4-5.6III.Commencement of work in anticipation of the orders on the Buildings and Roads budget	..    5-7
I.	Fundamental conditions	5.1-5.3
8. Powers of Government in the Administrative
   Departments-
     1. Administrative approval.
     (a) Residential buildings (other than ecclesiast-
Local)	..	5.8-5.9
     (b) Other public works (other than ecclesiastical	5-10
II. Technical sanction-
(a) General
(b) Original works
5.11
5.12-5'15


































Vii
Paragraph
       (c) Renewals and replacements	..	5.16
       (d) Maintenance and repairs	. .	5.17
       (e) Supplementary and revised estimates	. -	5.18-5.22
      III. Stores	..	5.32-5.25
      IV. Remission of departmental charges .	. .	5.26
       V. Miscellaneous powers	. 5.27-5.28
ANNEXURES TO CHAPTER V
  A. Auditor-General's Direction for establishment-
   B. Regarding date of birth
APPENDICES
 I	Molasses of deeds, contracts and other instruments and the
Officers authorized to execute them for and on behalf of the Governor of the West Pakistan.
II	Statement showing the minimum periods	for which official
records in the Buildings and Roads Department should be preserved.
III . List of Periodical Returns.
IV Sanitary rules on Extensive works.
V Store rules framed by the West Pakistan Government with
       Instructions regarding the preparation of indents.
VI Instructions for the guidance of Superintending Engineers acting as arbitrators.
VII . Instructions to be observed when Divisions or Subdivisions are amalgamated, formed or separated.
INTRODUCTION
         The administration of Buildings and Roads Department covers the entire West Pakistan as map forming the front-is-piece of this Code which shows its various Regions. The immediate control of operation is in the hands of the Governor of West Pakistan and this authority (hereinafter called the West Pakistan Government or Government) exercises full financial control over the affairs of the department Reference has been made to various rules in the Financial and Civil Services Rules of the former Punjab Government in this Code. This Code will now be applicable throughout the Province of West Pakistan and corresponding the issue of integrated Financial and Civil Services Rules for the Government of West Pakistan, references to the corresponding Financial and Services Rules of other integrating units will be necessary.
PREFACE
      The West Pakistan Buildings and Roads Department Code reproduced here is applicable to the respective Departments in the newly restored Provinces of the Punjab, Sind, N.W.F.P. and Baluchistan by virtue of Article 19 of the Province of West Pakistan (Dissolution) Order, 1970 (President‘s Order No. I of 1970) dated 30th‘March, 1970. The Code is applicable to Buildings and Roads Department including Irrigation, Communication (Posts and Telegraphs) and Central Works Department.
      Buildings and Roads Department and embodies such rulings as are necessary in the interest of Provincial finance and control. It does not deal with questions of pensions nor otherwise than indirectly with those relating to leave and allowances except where the rifles governing the same are peculiar to the Buildings and Roads Department, tar with the procedure to l followed in connection. with the Buildings and Roads accounts. The provisions of this Code in respect of financial and other powers define the limits of power of authorities subordinate to the former West Pakistan Government in Irrigation, Communication and Works Department. Fundamental Rules, Civil Services Rules of Punjab, Sind, Frontier, Bahawaipur, Khairpur, Baluchistan States Union, Departmental Finances Rules, Volume Ill and rules in the Audit Code, the Account Code of the Government relating to classes of transactions which occur in the Buildings and Roads Department as well as in other Departments. of Governments are binding on the Buildings and Roads Department except in so far as they may be over ridden by express provisions in this Code or in the Account code.
The rules in this Code also apply to Central Works (including Posts and Telegraphs) carried out by the former West Pakistan Government as Agents to the Government of Pakistan. -
      This Code is issued by the then Chief Engineer, of former West Pakistan Buildings and Roads Department. It has been approved by the Finance Department and Irrigation, Communication and Works Department as well as by Director Audit and Accounts (Works), of former West Pakistan. The administrative and executive instructions contained herein are practically the same as given in the Public Works Department Code, 2nd Edition, 3 reprint, Public Works Department Code of North-West Frontier Province (1st edition 1942) and Bombay Public Works Depart menial Manual (1st edition) reprinted under the orders of Sled Government in 1944, and it also included corrections and amendments necessitated as a result of constitutional changes brought out by the unification of the Provinces.
      This Code is self-contained as the references to other books have been avoided by reproducing the text required. Some of the Annexures and Appendices have also been added with a view to achieve this object.
      The Code was first issued by the then Government of West Pakistan in 1960 and since then amendments have been made from time to time in the provisions of this Code by the respective Governments of the, Punjab, Sind, N.W.F.P. and Baluchistan.
      All the available amendments have been incorporated, errors corrected, and omissions have also been. rectified. However full justice could not be done due the no availability of the amendments. The old currency rates of payments and revenues may be substituted by. the .latest rates prescribed by the respective Provincial Governments. The Code is to be quoted‘ in all official communications and the basic and fundamental provisions of the Code may also be referred	thereto	by	the	respective	Departments	cited	above.
HAMID ALI
