CHAPTER I—ESTABLISHMENT
A—ORGANIZATION
      (The administration of Buildings and Roads Department covers the entire West Pakistan as per. map forming the front is-piece of this Code which shows its various Regions. The immediate control of operation is in the hands of the Governor of West Pakistan and this authority (hereinafter called the West Pakistan Government or Governments) exercises full financial control over the affairs of the department).
      Sections A to B and F and 0 will be printed after the integration of the Civil Services Rules.
A - Organization .. paragraphs 1-1 to 1-3 omitted.
B -Recruitment of officers.. paragraphs 1-4 to 1-8 omitted.
C- -Promotions .. Paragraphs P9 to 1 22 omitted.
D-Punishments, resignations,
removal dismissal and deaths, omitted. para I. 13 to 1.37
E-DUTIES OF OFFICERS OF THE BUILDINGS
AND ROADS DEPARTMENT
1-CHIEF ENGINEER
      1.38. The Chief Engineer is the head Of the Department in his charge and is responsible for the efficient working .of his Department. Re is also the responsible professional adviser of Government in all matters relating to his charge or on which his advice may be desired. He is also required to bring clearly and faithfully before Government all subjects reserved for its decision lot that of the Central Government.
      1.39.—-it is the duty of the Chief Engineer to arrange, where necessary, removals, transfers and postings of-
(1) Regional Engineer Officers,
(2) Superintending Engineers,
(3) Divisional Officers, and
(4) Other Gazetted Officers.
      For No. I and 2 above, he will obtain orders of the Government. As regards No. 3 and. 4 above, their inter-zonal transfers will be arranged by the Chief Engineer. While their transfers within their Zone will be arranged by the Regional Engineer Officer, Chief. Engineer will, how 4. ever, in public interest exercise the powers of the Regional Engineer Officer.
I ‘40. The Chief Engineer will exercise a concurrent control with the Audit Officer, over the duties of the officers of the Department in connection with the maintenance of the accounts and. will give all legitimate support to the Audit Officer . in enforcing strict attention to the regulations concerning the disbursement of money, the custody of stores and the submission of accounts. He has no authority over the Audit Officer in regard to audit matters, but has a c]aim on him for assistance and advice in matters relating to accounts and finance. At the same time the Chief Engineer should arrange that the Audit Officer is kept fully cognizant of all proceedings and proposals, to enable the latter to fulfill	his functions.
1.41. The Chief Engineer all may correspond direct with the heads of Departments on all matters relating to details of buildings or works appertaining to those departments. A detail of buildings or works appertaining to those departments. A statement of the financial and miscellaneous powers of ‘the Chief Engineer is given in paragraphs 5‘27 and 5.28.
II-REGIONAL ENGINEER OFFICERS.
1.42. The Regional Engineer Officer is the administrative and professional officer in charge of a region. He is responsible to the Chief Engineer for the administrative and general professional control of works in charge of the officers of the department within the Circles under hi& charge.
2.	The Regional Engineer Officer will prepare annually the portion of the budget estimates
relating to the works under his control and as soon as possible after the close of each year a report. of. the progress made during that period on the works under his charge giving a brief but a clear account of the operations of the department.
3.	It is the duty of the Regional Engineer Officer to see that the budget allotments of the
year placed .at his disposal by the Chief Engineer or direct by other Head of Department pertaining to such Head of classification for which he Chief Engineer is not the operating

authority hare fully expended in so far as is consistent with general economy and the prevention of large expenditure in the last months of the year for the sole purpose of avoiding the lapses. He will ensure that money which is not likely to be needed during the year is promptly surrendered through the Chief Engineer or the Head of Department concerned so as to allow of its appropriation for other purposes by the proper and competent authority.
      4 8.- The Regional Engineer Officer will also be responsible in ensuring that the account of public Works Divisions in his administration are properly maintained and no arrears are allowed to accumulate for this purpose. He will fully utilize the services of the Audit Officer attached to his region who is required to go round various Public Works Division in the region for thorough and careful inspection and working of the Account! Branch and advise ways and means for the expeditious disposal of the account and work, clearance of arrears by existing staff giving necessary instruction on the spot or with the help of additional special staff where essentially	required.
5. Regional] Engineer Officers arc empowered to transfer and post all members of establishment within their regions with the following exceptions:
(a) Superintending Engineers.
(b) Divisional Accountant.
       (c) Officers other than the above who have been j specifically - posted by the Chief Engineer to a particular post - for some special reasons. Transfer of such officers requires Chief Engineer‘s approval.
6. The Regional Engineer Officer are not empowered to arrange transfers out of regions.
When arranging mutual transfers, orders of the Chief Engineer must be obtained before hand 1.43 A Regional Engineer Officer may correspond direct with the heads of departments on all matters relating to details of buildings and works appertaining to these departments.
III.—SUPERINTENDING ENGINEERS
1.44 The administrative unit of the department is the Circle, in charge of a Superintending Engineer who -is responsible to the Regional Engineer - Officers for the administration and general professional control of Public Works in charge of officers of the department within his Circle.
      I. 45 It is the duty of the Superintending Engineer to inspect. the state of the various works within his Circle, and to satisfy himself that the system of management providing is efficient and economical, that the different articles in stock are duly verified according to he rules laid down, and that there is no accumulation of stock in any division beyond its requirements. He is also responsible that no delay its to occur in the submission of Completion Reports or completion statements) where necessary. (See paragraph 2. 117).
      I.46 The Superintending Engineer is required to ascertain and report on the efficiency of the subordinate, offices and petty establishment, and to see that the staff employed in each Division is actually necessary and adequate for its management. He will also examine the condition of surveying and mathematical instruments at the headquarters of Divisions. He will inspect each Divisional Office in his Circle at least once in a year to examine initial accounts, accounts of stock, tools and plant and stock manufacture, registers of works and other divisional books, mode of preparation of estimates, contract agreements, contractors : accounts. system of recording plans and papers, and office work generally.
      The Superintending Engineers should submit invariably a report to the Regional Engineer Officer intimating whether the inspection discloses any serious irregularities or other matters of importance, which the Superintending Engineer considers should be brought to the notice of Regional Engineer Officer, or on which orders are required.
      I .47 Although the Audit Officer is required to make inspection of the account offices of disbursing officers, this does not relieve the Superintending Engineer of responsibility for the maintenance of the authorized system of accounts throughout his circle. The Audit Officer and the Superintending Engineer should assist each other in rendering the management of the accounts of the department as perfect as possible. The Superintending Engineer should also examine the books of Divisional Officers and their subordinates, and see that matters relating to the primary accounts are attended to personally by the Divisional and Sub-Divisional Officer and that the accounts fairly represent the progress of each work. It will also be his duty to examine the registers of works, so as to keep a vigilant watch over the rates of work, and when he considers it necessary, he may require a Divisional Officer to report to him monthly or at longer
intervals, on a works slip, W. P. A
Chap I)	ESTABLISHMENT ‘1 DUTIES OF OFFICERS	1.48
Form 39 the total expenditure to date under each sub-head of a work compared with the sanctioned estimate. It will thus be seen that its rests with the superintending Engineer to investigate excesses over sub-heads with a view to deciding whether or not a revisal estimate is required for the work. When a revised estimate is required it will also devolve on the Superintending Engineer to see that it is submitted in due time to the sanctioning authority. See paragraphs 1 ‘63 and 2- 110.
      1-48 (1) (a) Transfer within Circle Superintending Engineers are empowered to transfer and post all members of establishment within their circles with the following exceptions
(a) Divisional Officers. Divisional Accountants.
(c) Officers other than the above who have been specifically -posted by tie Chief Engineer and the Regional Engineer Officer to a particular post for some special reasons. Transfer of such officer requires Regional Engineers officers approval.
(d) Transfer outside Circle Superintending Engineer should try to arrange mutual transfers of non- gazetted establishment, for personal or other reasons, in direct communication with the Superintending Engineer of the circle concerned. the case of establishment borne on provincial cadres, the transfer should be reported to Regional Engineer officer for information.
      If a mutual transfer cannot be arranged within four month a report should be made in the case of establishment borne on Provincial cadres to the Regional Engineer Officer for orders stating the action already taken.
Mutual transfers of the following Gazetted and non- gazetted establishment must not be arranged by Superintending Engineers. These cases must be reported to Regional Chief Engineer for orders:-
      (i) Overseers Officiating as Sub-divisional Officers.
      (ii) Circle Superintending and Circle Head Draftsmen whether permanent or officiate.
1.49-1.53	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	CHAP - I
      When - arranging mutual transfer , Superintending Engineers must see that members of establishment borne on Provincial cadres are not taken back in a circle in which they have already had a long stay, or it which their home district or property lies
      Before a transfer is made both Superintending Engineers must satisfy themselves that the individual concerned has not been posted to, or previously transferred from their circle for part particular reasons orders of Regional Chief Engineer are needed before a retransfer is, carried out.
      I .49 Superintending Engineers are responsible for the engineering character of every work which they approve, and, in submitting any report design, estimate, or other documents to the Regional Engineer officer will invariably state their own opinion and recommendations on the subjects, in particular as to the suitability of the designs and the reasonableness of the rates. They should also have estimates checked and compared With the drawings,
      (2) Superintending Engineers may be required to exercise, in addition to their ordinary duties, supervision over 10031 fund expenditure in communication with the Civil Officers. 1.50 Besides regular tours of inspection, it is the duty of Superintending Engineers to proceed to any place in their circles to report on any important design or work, or any serious accident or threatened danger connected with the works within their charge.
      1.51 Superintending Engineer is authorized to cones- pond direct with any of the local authorities, civil or military, within his Circle He will address General Officers Commanding Divisions or Brigades through their Staff Officers, and all other officers direct.
III— SUPERINTENDENTS OF WORKS
I 52-Deleted.
IV-DIVISION OFFICERS
1.53 The executive unit of the Department is the Division, in charge of a divisional officer who is usually an Executive Engineer and is responsible to the Superintending Engineer, for the execution and management of all works within his Division. The number of Divisions, permanent or temporary, is fixed by the Government of West Pakistan for the Department according to its requirements, provided
always that true interests of any of the existing officers of the Indian Service of Engineers are not, adversely affected thereby
.
Assistant Executive and Assistant or temporary Engineers way be placed in charge of Divisions, either to fill short ternporary vacancies or because Executive Engineer is available, they exercise the.	powers	and	bear	the	responsibilities	of	an
Executive Engineer while in such charge.
1.54 A	Divisional	Officer	can	receive	positive	orders	only
from his own departmental superiors, the head of the Administration, or -other Civil officers duly authorized.
1.55 Divisional Officers are responsible that proper measures are -taken to-preserve all the buildings and works in their Divisions, and to prevent encroachment on Government lands in their -charge They should keep accurate plans of all ‘Government Lands, take care that their- subordinates make themselves acquainted with the boundaries and see that they are maintained.
1.56 Every Divisional Officer is required to report immediately by telegram direct to the Chief Engineer and also to the Regional Engineer Officer and- Superintending Engineer any serious accident or unusual occurrence resulting in serious injury to or death of a by person or damage - to any work or. crop.. Connected with his Division. The telegram should be confirmed by letter stating the action taken by the Divisional Officer. (See also paragraph 2.96).
1.57 Divisional Officers may transfer establishment others than Sub-Divisional Officers, Divisional Accountants and within their respective Divisions without reference to higher. authority. Such transfers will be reported in the ordinary course the	Superintending	Engineer.
1.58 Divisional Officers are- immediately responsible for the proper maintenance of all works in their charge and for the preparation of projects and of designs and estimates, whether for new works or repairs. It is also part of -their duties to organize and supervise the execution of works and to see that they are suitably and economically carried out with	materials	of	good	quality.
1.59 Divisional Officers are strictly prohibited from commencing the construction of any works or expending public funds without the sanction of competent authority; also from making or permitting any material deviations from any sanctioned design in the course of execution without specific authority, or in case of emergency when the change should be forthwith reported to the Superintending Engineer (See also paragraph 2.84)
1.1 60-I .63 PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	(Chap. I
1.60 Immediately a work is finished, it is the duty of the Divisional Officer to close the accounts and to prepare the completion report If required by the riles in paragraph 2.117.
1.61 . Divisional Officers will take the necessary steps for obtaining cash for the works under their control, and will keep their accounts and submit them punctually to the audit office under the rules for the time being in force. In their arrangements for account keeping they will exercises a thorough and efficient control and check over their Divisional Accountants.. They will also, before submitting the monthly accounts carefully examine the hooks, returns and papers from which the same are complied .
1.62 . The Divisional Officer is responsible for the correctness in all respects, of the original records of cash and stores, receipts awl expenditure and for seeing that complete vouchers are obtained. The Divisional Accountant is responsible to the Divisional Officer for the correct compilation of the accounts of Division from the data supplied to him,
      The Divisional Officer is responsible that his accounts are regularly posted day to day and that the divisional Accountant caries out his duties regularly and punctually. The relative position of a divisional officer and respect of accounts is analogous to that of a Sub-Divisional officer to a Divisional Officer in respect of Works and the responsibilities of the latter for the work of the Divisional l Accountant are similar to those which attach to him in respect of the execution of‘ works in the charge of other subordinates.
1.63 The Divisional Officer is held primarily responsible for affording information of the probability of excess over the estimated cost of work, and is expected not to allow any delay to occur in reporting any such probability to the Superintending Engineer. Immediately it becomes apparent that, whether from excess of certain rates or from departure from a design or any other cause, the estimated cost of a. work likely to be exceeded the Divisional Officer is bound to report the fact forthwith to the Superintending Engineer, describing the nature and cause of the probable excess and asking for orders. This report should be made on the works slip, P. W. A. from 39. The Divisional Officer must also submit the works slip, with such explanation as will enable the Superintending Engineer to pass orders on the case, on the occurrence, or the probability of the occurrence,
of any irregularity in the rate or cost of a sub-head. All important liabilities not brought to account should also be noted on the works slip.
It will not be necessary for the Divisional Officer to submit the works slip in cases in which he can finally pass excess over estimates as per powers detailed in Annexure —A” to Chapter II of this code.
      1.64 The Divisional Officer is responsible that the surveying and mathematical instruments in his Division are properly eared for, and will report on their condition to the Superintending Engineer at the and of each working season. Any injury to the instruments due to neglect or carelessness should be made good at the expense of the officer or subordinates responsible for the damage.
      1.65 It will be the duty of the Divisional Officer to furnish Treasury and Sub-Treasury .Officers, after due inspection, with the certificate, prescribed in Article 9 of the Resource Manual as to the security of strong rooms used or proposed to be used for the storage of coin.
      1.66 The Divisional Officer, in addition to his other duties, will consider himself to be the ex-office professional adviser of all departments of the administration within the limits of his charge. He will transact business of this sort with the Chief military or civil authorities within his Division, but it is incumbent on him to see that no undue formalities or comparatively unessential projects are allowed to interfere with the performance of those duties which are necessary or urgent.
      1.67 67. Divisional Officers may, where the services of an officer of the Military Engineer Services are not available, be called upon by General Officers Commanding Divisions or Brigades to be members of committees appointed to select sites and determine general boundaries of cantonments.
      1.68. At stations where there are no ordnance or military works workshops, repairs to ambulance wagons and tongas will be carried out by the Buildings and Roads J)department.
      1.69	. Divisional Officers will address Officers Commanding Divisions, Brigades or
Stations through their Staff Officers.
V—SUB DIVISIONAL OFFICER
      I. 70 The Division is divided in to Sub-Divisions Incharge of Sub-Divisional Officers who may be Executive Engineers, Assistant Executive Engineers, Assistant Engineers or where no. such Officers are available, Engineer Subordinates; they
1 .86	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[CHAP-.1
      are responsible to the Divisional Officer for the management and execution of works within their Sub-Decisions and are his assistants.
      No. Sub Division can be constituted in the first instance with out the sanction of Government
F—ALLOWANCE ADVANCES AND COMPENSATION Paragraph 1.72 to 1.79 Omitted
G Leave
Paragraph 1.80 to 1.85 Omitted
H— EXAMINATION
      I—TRAINING AND EXAMINATION OF ENGINEERS
I .86. The following departmental examinations are compulsory for the classes of officers noted against each:—
1. Professional Examination to be passed within three years of joining the appointment by
the members of the Punjab Services of Engineers (Classes I and II), Khairpur Service of Engineers (Classes I and II), Sind Services of Engineers (Classes I and II Provincial Service of Engineers, Class I and Class II of old N.-W. F. P. and Temporary Engineers of all Integrating Units (including Temporary Engineers of old Baloushistan States Union) and by other permanent and temporary Engineers (of all ranks); and within three years, to be reckoned as per details given in paragraph 1.90 by members of the Subordinate Engineering Service. No member of the latter service will be considered eligible for promotion to the P.S.E., Class II, Buildings and Roads Department, unless he has passed the Professional Examination
2. If an officer fails to pass any of these examinations with in the prescribed period, his
increments will be withheld and will not be granted with retrospective effect, on his passing the examination on passing the examination on he will, with effect from the date following that on which the examination ended, be entitled to the rate of pay corresponding to his length of service. If a member of the Subordinate Engineering Service in the Buildings and -Roads Department fails to pass the professional Examination with in the prescribed period, he shall be reverted to sectional, charge. If, however, his failure to pass be due to circumstances beyond the control of he officers or subordinate, Government may extended the period for hint
3. The names only of successful candidates will be intimated the Secretary to Government. West	Pakistan,	Irrigation,	Communications	and	Works	Department.
Note- The date of joining appointment for the purpose of this paragraph is date from which pay is drawn (in the case of officers required in Europe , the date from which after arrival in West Pakistan, pay is drawn).
CHAP.I	ESTABLISHMENT EXAMINATIONS	(1.87-1.90
2 .87	(1) An officer appointed to the Department as Assistant Executive Engineer, Assistant
Engineer, or Temporary Engineer shall be required, during the first two years of his service, to write up the accounts of a Subdivision himself for three months, and he shall shortly, thereafter‘ be posted to a Divisional Office for a short period to learn how the Sub-Divisional accounts are dealt with there and in the accounts of the Division.
3 2) No exemption will be allowed to any officer recruited in or outside Pakistan. on the recommendation of the Superintending Engineer, however, the Chief Engineer may exempt an officer who, before appointment to the Department, had previous experience in the procure relating to initial accounts sufficient to justify exemption.
4 3) Officers already in the Department are exempted from the operation of rule I above as also those who have been promoted from the Subordinate or Temporary Engineer Establishment to the various cadres of Services of Engineers.
1.88 Deleted.
II—Professional Examination
1. 89. The Departmental Professional examination is intended to show that officers are acquainted with the processes of preparing materials and modes of construction; that they have a good knowledge of the resources of the districts in which they have been employed as to materials, the best mode of applying them, and their cost, and that they understand the management of labour and have made themselves acquainted with the account rules and procedure of the Department. No theoretical points should be introduced, such as would in practice be met by resort to ordinary books of reference.
1.90. The following rules and procedure are laid down for Buildings and Roads (including Public Health Circle and other Special lines )Department in regard to the Professional Examination to be passed by members of the Punjab Service of Engineers (Classes I and II) Bahawalpur Service of Engineers (Glass I-and II) Sind Service of Engineers (Classes I .and II), Khairpur Service of Engineers (Classes I and II), Provincial Service of Engineers, Northwestern Frontier Province (Classes I and II), Temporary Service of Engineers -of Old Baluchistan State Union, Subordinate Engineering Service, other permanent and temporary Engineers (of all ranks) and all Consulting Architects, Assistant Consulting Architects, Provincial Town Planner and Assistant Provincial Town Planner within three years which will count .
Chap. I]	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE (1.90)
from the date of appointment to independent charge and the period of training if any, shall be excluded. This examination must also be passed by members of the Senior Establishment Service and Overseers who officiate as Sub-Divisional Officers within three years as follows In the case of those who officiate continuously for not less than 6 months for the first time the three years will count from the date of commencement of such period of 6 mouths and in the case of those who officiate for broken periods of less than 6 months, the three years will be calculated by totaling such broken periods.
Note—(1) All Engineers entering the department in the Buildings and Roads, General and Public Health line shall during the fist three years of their service qualify in any one of two examination, for the Buildings and roads General or Public Health and in the next three years those passing the examination for general line shah also qualify in Papers (ii) and (iii) of Public health and those passing public Health in paper (ii) of Roads and Bridge.
(2)	—(2) Engineers whose service will be above 6 years on lab April 1958 and have passed
the Departmental Professional Examination will, however, be exempted from the operation of the orders contained in Note I above,
(2)	(a) Application for. admission to the examination—
      An Officer who desires to be examined should apply through his immediate superior for admission to the examination. This application should be accompanied by a report on his fitness to be examined by the Divisional immediate Officer under whom he is serving. This report should deal with those points which cannot be tested by an Examination, especially with regard to physical energy, efficiency in practical work and capacity to manage these under Mi authority.
(b) Date of holding the examination—The examination will ordinarily be held in May and November. Applications should be submitted in March or September, respectively so that when possible the date of the examination may be fixed six weeks prior to the date on which it will be held.
(c) Conduct of examination — (i) The Secretary to Government, West Pakistan, Irrigation, Communications and Works Department will appoint a board to conduct the examination, consisting of a Superintending Engineer of the Buildings and Roads, General Line as President and two Executive Engineers as members, who will be one each, from the Buildings and Roads General Line and the Public Health Circle to be nominated by the Secretary, Irrigation, Communications and Works Department. The Consulting or Provincial Town Planner will be appointed to conduct the Architect Examination of the candidates from the Offices of the Consulting Architect and Provincial Town Planner.. The paper in accounts shall be set by an Officer of the finance or the Audit Department.
      (ii)	The Secretary will fix the place date and time of the examination.
      (iii)	The Examiners will be to return the answer paper duly marked to the president
of the road within 4 days of the examination of the paper concerned and the latter will compile and submit the result to the Secretary last declaring it within seven days from the last date of he examination
       (d)Subject for examination-One paper will be set in each of the following subjects to which the maximum number of marks shown against each will be allotted:-
Subject
Buildings and Roads 1)Department General Line—
(i) Materials and Construction (I written paper 3 hours)	100
(ii) Roads and Bridges (I written paper
2 hours) for Buildings and Roads General line , candidates only	50
(iii) Water Supply and Drainage (elementary) for buildings and Roads, General Line, candidates only .	50
(iv) Simple Electrical Hydraulic and Mechanical
Engineering for buildings and Roads	50
(v) Accounts and office procedure (I Written paper, 3 hours	100
(vi) General oral Examination	50
Total	400
Public Heath -
i. Material and construction (I written paper, 3 hours)	100
ii. Water supply and sanitary Engineering (advanced) for public
      Health Branch candidates	50
iii. Electrical Hydraulic and Mechanical Engineering applied to Public Health work including air-conditioning and refrigeration for public Health Branch Candidates.	100
1.90 PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[Chap. I
Subject	Total Marks
(iv) Accounts and office procedure
   (1 written paper, 3 hours )	100
(v) General Oral Examination	50
Total	400
Electrical and mechanical-
i.	Materials and construction (I written paper, 3 hours	100
ii.	Electrical installation and equipment in Government	50
      Buildings for candidates of electrical and Mechanical
      Divisions only
iii	Advance Electrical and Mechanical Engineering generation
transmission and distribution of Electric Energy including Meters and instruments for candidates of electrical and Mechanical
       Davison only	100
(iv) Accounts and office procedure( I written paper, 3 hours	100
(v) General oral examination ...	50
Total.	400
Town Planning.—
(i) Historical aspects of Town Planning ..	75
(ii) Principles of Town Planning and its :
      practical application including Design
      of Layout Schemes ..	75
(iii) Surveying ..	50
(iv) Town Planning In relation to-
(a) Engineering including Roads, Drainage, Water Supply Electric Installation.
(b) Architecture including civil centre roads including Parks and Gardens furnishing and illumination thereof.
N.B (a) for Engineers qualified in town planning and	50
(c) for architects qualified in town planning
      (v) laws and practice of town planning	100
      (iv)General oral examination	50
400
Chap. I	ESTABLISHMENT EXAMINATION
      Subject    Total Marks(i)	Historical Aspects of Architecture..75(ii)	Principles of Architecture and their      application.50(iii)	Design of a building to be drawn to
a scale of 8 feet to an inch and working drawings including half inch and full size details together with specification      estimate100(iv)	Theoretical and Practical Buildings      Construction75(v)	Drainage Water Supply and Electricity.50(vi)	General Oral Examination.50Total.400
      Note (l) Paper I above for Buildings and Roads, General Line, Public Health and Electrical and Mechanical will contain questions in all out of which 3 shall be common to all the candidates and the remaining 6 shall be separate for candidates from the General Line, Public Health. Circle and Electrical and Mechanical Offices.
      (2) Examination in paper General) Examination shall be held separately for Buildings and Roads Department, General Line, Public Health Circle and Electrical and Mechanical Offices candidates.
      (e) In order to pass, a candidate must obtain not less than 50 percent marks in each subject and an aggregate of not less than 60 percent of the total marks in all subjects. A candidate who fails in only one subject, but obtains not less than 66 percent of the total for other subjects, may be permitted to appear —again in the subject in which he failed In such cases he	must	obtain	not	less	than	60	percent	in	that
subject in order to pass. .
      (f) Details for the conduct of the Examination (i)
      The candidates will be provided with section paper, so that question involving engineering design may be answered by neat sketches with explanatory notes
(ii) Each candidate will be expected to bring his own drawing instruments and scales to the Examination Considerable importance will be attached to the neatness and accuracy of the sketches.
1.91-1.94)	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
(iii) The answers to the questions must be written so as to leave one quarter margin on which the examiners will record their masks against each question.
(g) In the event of the Secretary to Government, West Pakistan, Irrigation, Communications and Works Department, deciding that an Officer or a member of Senior Establishment Service has passed this examination, a notification to this effect will be published in the West Pakistan Government Gazette.
I-EMPLOYMENT ON LOCAL FUND WORKS
1.91. Members of the Department may be employed on Local Fund Works subject to the values in the Civil Service Rule of West Pakistan and to the rules in the- following paragraphs.
1.92. Members of the Department employed in an executive capacity upon Local Fund Works may be divided -into three classes, viz. -
1st—	Those- detached for the sole purpose of Superintending Local Fund
Works, and placed under the orders of the local civil authorities or local boards and paid entirely from local funds.
2nd— Those employed wholly on Local Fund Works which are constructed under the administration of - the Chief Engineer and according to the rules of the department.
3rd—	Those employed partly on Provincial, and partly on Local Fund Works.
1.93. Subject to the, condition in paragraph 1.94 Engineers or Overseers may at their own option and subject to the sanction of Government be permanently transferred to the first of these classes. Such persons will be treated as super numerations.
1.94. Any Engineer or Overseer permanently transferred can return -to the Department in his former grade only at the discretion, of the Government of West Pakistan but ‘whenever his services are required, he may be- brought back to the regular establishment of the Department by the order of- the Government in ‘the same or any higher grade it may think suitable, subject to the usual conditions regarding examinations, and the fixed proportions of the grades, if any.


      1.95. The rules in paragraphs 1.933 to 194 apply to Engineers and Overseer permanently transferred for employment on Local Fund Works. But there is no objection, under the same general restrictions to their temporary deputation for such employment, the officers being retained on the Buildings and Roads list and the entire charges borne by the local funds.
      I. 96. Persons of the second class mentioned in paragraph 191, viz., those employed in Local Fund Works which are carried out under the order of the Chief Engineer, will be subjected to the rules of the Department, Engineers and -Overseer may be thus employed on Local Fund Works at the pleasure of the West Pakistan Government.
      1.97. Officers of the Indian Service of Engineers and the Punjab Services of Engineers, Bahawalpur Service of Engineers Sind and. Khairpur Service of Engineers, Provincial Service of Engineer, North-West Frontier Province, Temporary Service of Engineers of Old Baluchistan State Union, including Temporary Engineers of all Integrating Units, - Subordinate Engineering Service and Overseers may at the discretion of the West Pakistan Government, be employed on Local Fund Works in addition to their regular duties, -when such employment is not detrimental to the public service.
1.98. No officer or subordinate in the Department may receive any additional emoluments -on account of the performance of any duties in connection with Local Fund Works, except as provided, in Rule &49 to 5.49 of Civil Service Rules (Punjab), Volume I, Part 1, extracted and reproduced in Annexure I to Chapter III, and corresponding rules of other integrating units.
J.TRANSFER
I-GENERAL
      1.19 . Before the transfer of any official of the Department from one Region to another, is carried out, a confidential report of his -character and qualifications should -invariably be forwarded to--the authority by whom the transfer is ordered, for transmission to the Region- to which he is under transfer. It should always be distinctly stated in the report whether the promotion of the officer would have been recommended, had be not been transferred.
II—INTER- PROVINCIAL TRANSFERS
      1.100 . Transfers of Officers of Indian Service of Engineer from the West Pakistan to
East - Pakistan and vice
Versa may be made by mutual arrangement between the transferring Governments. The Central Government ha aid‘) reserved the right to order such transfer should they be deemed desirable.
      All such transfers from one province to another will be reported to, and notified by the Central Government.
111—Inter-Departmental Transfers
      1.101 The following rules are laid down relating to the transfers of the services of a Government servant from one Government office or department to another:—
      I. It is the duty of a Government servant, who - wishes to have his services
transferred to a different Government office or department, to obtain the consent of the authority which makes appointment to his existing post before taking up the new employment. If he takes up the new employment without such consent, he commits a breach of discipline and is liable to be punished, in the last resource, by dismissal from his former post and consequent loss of pensionable service. Resignation of his former appointment will not protect him from this penalty.
       II. In granting or withholding consent to the acceptance by a subordinate of other
Government employment, the head of an office or department must - consider whether the transfer will be consistent with the interest of the public service. Permission should not be refused without strong reason, which should be recorded in writing.
III. The head of an office or department should not employ either temporarily or permanently an officer whom he knows, or has reason to believe, to belong to another establishment without the previous consent of the head of the office or department in which he is employed. In the rare case in which, for reasons which appear satisfactory I to the new employer, an officer cannot obtain, the required consent before taking up the new appointment the employment may be made conditional on consent being obtained at the earliest opportunity.
      The foregoing instructions apply equally to officers on leave whether with or without allowances. All leave allowances must ipso facto cease on taking up new employment other than work of a purely casual nature. See also Rule
Chap. I]	ESTABLISHMENT TEMPORARY	1.102-1.105
AND WORK CHARGED
IV. 2 of Civil Service Rule (Punjab), Volume I, Part I extracted and reproduced in Annexure ‘B‘ to this chapter, or the corresponding rules of the other, integrating units.
1.102 Government orders regulating applications for:-
      (a) Private employment;
      (b) Employment, in other Departments of Government or under other Government;
      (c) Permission to appear at examination for recruitment to services or posts;
K—EMPLOYMENT OF TEMPORARY AND WORK charged
ESTABLISHMENT
I—Temporary Establishment
      1. 103. (1 In order to meet the demand for extra supervision which may arise from time to time, as well as to. insure that the Buildings and Roads Establishment shall be capable of contraction as well as of expansion as the expenditure on works diminishes or increases, the permanent establishments may be supplemented by temporary establishments to such an extent as may be necessary, and varying in strength from time to time according to the nature of the work	to	be	done.
(2) Temporary establishment will include all such nonpermanent establishment, no matter under what titles employed as is entertained for the general purposes of a Division or a SubDivision, or for the purpose of the general supervision, as distinct from, the actual execution of a work or works.
(3)	All persons so engaged must be required to sign the declaration indicated in paragraph
1.105 Petty establishments and establishments whose pay is charged to works under paragraph 1.107 are exempted from submitting temporary service declarations.
      1.104 . The power to sanction temporary establishment has been delegated to the authorities named and to the extent specified in Finance Departments circular letter No. F.D.O.I.E.R) 16/59, dated 12th January 1969, as specified and reproduced in‘ Annexure B to Chapter II to this code
      1.105 Persons engaged against the temporary establishment will be on the footing of monthly servants and they must be clearly informed in writing that their employment carries with it absolutely no claim to pension, to any leave except under the rules framed by Government and they must be required to sign a declaration that this is clearly understood
1.106 —1.107	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE [CHAP
by them. If they are engaged for a special work their engagement lasts only for the period during which the work lasts. If discharged, otherwise when for serious misconduct before the completion of the work, they will be entitled to a month‘s notice or a month‘s pay in lieu of notice; but otherwise with or without notice, their engagement terminates when the work ends. If they desire to resign their appointments they will be required to give a month‘s notice of their intension to do so or forfeit a month‘s pay in lieu of such notice. The terms of engagement should be clearly explained to men employed in circumstances mentioned above.
      Proviso— In the case of persons officiating in a temporary vacancy their services may be terminated without notice at any time.
      1.106 within the limit of their power of sanction, as laid down in Government of West Pakistan Finance Department letter No, FD.SOI (S.R)	757/58 dated 1st November 1958 as
reproduced in Annexure ‘B‘ to Chapter U, the appointment, pay, promotion and reduction of all classes of temporary establishment will be regulated by the authorities competent to make appointments. In order, however, to secure uniformity, rates of pay and promotion will be regulated in accordance with general orders laid down by the Chief Engineer.
II. Work Charged Establishment
      (1) 07. Works establishment will include such establishment as is employed upon ‘to actual execution, as distinct from the general supervision, of a specific work, or of sub- works of a specific project, or upon the subordinate supervision of department labour, stores and machinery in connection with such a work or sub-works, provided that as an exception to the above miseries and mates employed in the interests of Government on the technical supervision of contractors work and khalasis attached to subordinates for assisting them on works will be treated as work-charged establishment. When employees borne on the temporary establishment are employed on work of this nature, their pay should for the time being, be charged direct to the work.
      (2) Works establishment does not include Clerks, Draft man, Subordinate or extra establishment of any kind for the Divisional or Sub-Divisional offices, such establishment being properly chargeable to temporary Establishment but where Dak Runners are employed solely for a particular work of a temporary nature, for a period not exceeding six months they may be treated as work-charged establishment.
ESTABLISHMENT TEMPORARY AND WORK CHARGED
      (3) The Chief Engineer, Regional Engineer Of officers and Superintending Engineers are empowered to classify as ‘Works’ or ‘Temporary’ those classes of establishment about whose correct definition there is a doubt) subject to the concurrence of the Audit Officer and to the proviso that general principles for entertainment of such establishment are not infringed
      (4) Chief Engineer, Regional Engineer officers and Superintending Engineers are authorized to waive the rule which requires that works establishment must be employed on a specific work and to determine, in such cases the proportions in which the cost of such establishment	shall	be	allocated	between	the	works	concerned.
      Note— As an exception to the general role, the cost of khalasis attached to sub ordinates may be charged to annual maintenance and repairs or other estimates in which maintenance and repairs or other estimates in Which provision for it has been suede with the sanction of the superintending Engineer.
      (5,) The cost of works establishment must be shown as a separate sub-head of the estimate for a work.
      (6)All pay bills for work-charged establishment shall be pre-audited by the Divisional Accountant and approved by the Divisional Officer before payment. Before a member of the work-charged establishment whose services have been dispensed with, is settled up, the Sub- Divisional Officer should invariably ascertain from the Divisional Officer if there are any
Out standings against the man.
      (7) Members of the work-charged establishment, other, than Road Inspectors who are engaged on the footing of monthly servants will be subject to discharge at 10 days’ notice except in the case of serious misconduct or gross inefficiency when no notice will be given), or on payment of pay for 10 days or for such period up to this extent as may be due to them in lieu of notice. Should they desire to resign they will be required to give 10 days’ notice or forfeit pay for this period or for such period up to this extent as may be due to them in lieu of notice.
      1.108. The powers of the various officers of the Buildings and Roads Department to sanction the entertainment of work charged establishment are specified in Annexure ‘A’ and ‘B’ to Chapter II of this Code.
      1-109 . A work-charged employee is not entitled to any pension, leave or travelling or other allowance except in the following cases:-
(1) (a), The work-charged establishment by the very nature of their duties cannot be treated as permanent Government employees.. It has been decided
1.109] PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	CODE-I
That they may be allowed the following concessions which should be considered as adequate, particularly when their daily wages or monthly wages are fixed on the assumption that they are Work charged Establishment and are not entitled to all the concessions which are otherwise available to permanent or temporary regular Government employees:-
   (i) Leave n all Sundays and Gazetted Holidays.
(ii) No earned leave will be admissible, as it may complicate matters and create a lot of work regarding maintenance of accounts, etc., but casual leave at the following scale may be allowed in additions to (i) above
      (a) Work-charged Establishment with more than five years continuous service .20 days.
      (b) Work-charged Establishment with service between two and five years .	10 days.
(c) Work-charged Establishment with less than two years but more than one year‘s service.	5 days.
      (d) Work charged Establishment with less than one year‘s service.	Nil.
(b) The casual leave mentioned above will be admissible to work-charged Establishment in each calendar year and will not be cumulative.”
(2) Transfer travelling allowance, i.e, single railway fare or actual travelling expenses including the cost of carriage of personal effects to Road Inspectors, Road Roller Drivers and Firemen, Mistries (including Electric Mistries), Electric Mechanics and employees on the work charged establishment in the Public Health Circle for themselves and dependent members of their families who are not male of over 18 years of age on the occasion of their transfer in cases of sheer necessity in the public interest, subject to the following	conditions:-
(a) The limits of travelling allowance relating to the cost of carriage of personal effects and the class of railway accommodation admissible to regular Government servants of the same grades are not exceeded .
Chap. I)	ESTABLISHMENT -POLICE AND	1.110-1.111
OTHER GUARDS
(b) the grant of travelling allowance will be at the discretion of the Divisional Officer;
(c) The transfer is from one place to another, except in the ease of Road Roller Drivers and
Firemen when travelling allowance will only be allowed for transfer from one Division to another.
(d) The journey performed is in the interest of work on which he is employed and not as a Disciplinary measure.
(3) Wound and other. Extraordinary pensions and gratuities in certain cases;
(4) Grain compensation allowance;
(5) Compensation wider Workman‘s Compensation Act. 1923 and ex-gratia payment of the amount which would have been statutorily payable if the accident had occurred in West Pakistan Buildings and Road, Department employees in the tracts to which the Act has not yet been applicable.
      Notes (1)- This rule doo not apply to members of the temporary establishment whose pay is charged to works under paragraph 1.107 of this code . The leave salaries travelling and other allowances of such establishment are regulated by the rules applicable to temporary establishment
      Note (2) Rules for the recovery of rent for work charged establishment are contained in paragraph 3 8.
L—POLICE AND OTHER GUARDS
      1.110. When marching or in camp on public duty, officers are allowed a guard for the protection of public property. Such guards are supplied by the Police Department, and. application for them should be made to the Superintendent of Police by the officer requiring them ,unless he be an Assistant Executive Engineer or of lower rank in which case the application should be made by the Divisional Officer. Such guards will not, how ever, be supplied unless the officer travelling is Incharge of Government money or valuable Government property, or the country is disturbed and no charge for them will be made by the Police Department.
      1.111. In all cases where through the inability of the Police Department to supply a guard from the regular police force special guards have to be entertained the sanction of Government will he necessary. Officers may, however, in urgent cases entertain the guard in, anticipation of sanction reporting heir action at once to higher authority. The services of such extra guards should be dispensed with directly they are no longer required. The cost of such guards will be allocated as laid down in sub-paragraph (2 infra.
1.112. 1-119	WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[CHAP. I
      (2) The cost of all treasure guards (Police establishment) when recruited, controlled, and paid, by the Buildings and Roads Department, will form a debit against the department and should be charged as petty establishment in the monthly bills of the Division, or against the special work for which they may have been engaged .
      1.112. . Divisional and Sub-Divisional Officers who have charge of public money may be allowed, as part of their establishment, a treasure guard, the strength of which will be fixed according to the circumstances in each case by the Chief Engineer, after obtaining the previous, approval of the Finance Department.
      (2) These guards should ordinarily be employed only for the custody and escort, of Government treasure, but may also be employed to carry specially valuable documents.
M—MEDICAL ESTABLISHMENT
I—GENERAL
      1.113. The Provincial Medical Service is divided into TO) branches, one for Medical Officer and the other for Assistant Medical Officer. The requirements of the Department will, as a rule, be met from the Provincial ‘establishment but on occasions when the service of a Medical Officer or Military Sub Assistant surgeon in Civil employment cannot be made available, a Military Sub Assistant. Surgeon may be obtained by, application to the Director-General, Pakistan Medical Service, through the Director, Health, Services West Pakistan.
      1.114. Medical Officer or Assistant Medical Officer will be allowed as a part of the Buildings and Roads establishment, and furnished with medicines at the public expense, wherever any large body of workmen is collected together. Sanction., to their appointment must be obtained under the usual rules, regarding increases of establishment, and application for the service of individuals to fill sanctioned appointments will be made through Superintendent Engineers to the Director, Health Services, West Pakistan.
11.-Pay and Allowances of Medical Establishment
1.115. Deleted.
1.116. Deleted
1.117. Deleted.
      III-Leave, Retirement anti Resignations M. Os &
1.118. Deleted.
IV—Removal
Deleted
CHAP I]	ESTABLISHMENT-MISCELLANEOUS	1.20-1.123
RULES
N- MISCELLANEOUS	RULES
1—Personne
      1.120. Officers of the Indian Service of Engineers and -other officers appointed by the Secretary of State before the introduction of Provincial Autonomy in 1937, are liable to a serve in any part of Pakistan unless stipulated otherwise in -their agreements. All other Officers of the Buildings and Roads Department are liable to serve anywhere within the West Pakistan and the Pakistan States in which works are being executed under the administrative control of the West Pakistan Government or in - which works controlled by that. Governments are situated unless	otherwise	expressly	stated	in	their	agreements.
      1.121. It is a breach of the Government Servants Conduct Rules for a Government servant to have a personal financial interest in a work for which he is responsible to Government
      In the Buildings and Roads Department it is forbidden -the Government Servant on. behalf of Government issue a -work order to sign a contract in favour of, or buy materials for Government work from any person who is related to him or in whose activities he is privately interested. For the -purpose of this rule, the term ‘related’ is to be interpreted as including relationship both close and emote.
      1. 122. Every member of the Department, whether civil -or military, must consider that his pay, for the time being. or as defined in any agreement, is his also legal remuneration, and that the receipt of commission, or any consideration, directly or indirectly on account o any business or transaction in which he may be concerned on behalf of Government, is prohibited. Every officer of Government is bound to report to his departmental superior any infringement of this rule which may come to his knowledge .See also paragraph 1.98
      Note— The rule regarding the grant of honoraria from general revenues and the acceptance of honoraria and fees from a source other than general revenues are contained in rule 5-49 to 5.96 to C. S. R., Punjab, Volume I part I as reproduced in annexure I to Chapter III of this code or corresponding rules of other in integrating unites .
II-COMPLAINT AGAINST OFFICIALS
1.123. No anonymous Communication regarding the - conduct of any Government officer shall be acted upon without the permission of Government, excepting an far as to Endeavour to remove any apparently well founded causes of complaint which do not affect the character of individuals. With the above exception, every complaint by or against any person in the department must be received, if allegations of a definite nature, which can be verified, are medical enquired into by his superior officer.
1.124.—1.125)	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[Chap. I
111—Procedure in regard law units
      1.124. When any officer or subordinate lathe department is personally sued in any Civil Court, by parties claiming from him wages or money arising out of transaction in which he is concerned only in his official capacity, and bona fide on behalf of Government, it will be necessary that he defends the suit by pleading that Government should be made the- defendant as the party really interested. But when the suit is for damages in respect of an alleged wrongful act of a Government Officer, the party aggrieved may, as a general rule, bring the suits against such officer, and it would be no defense for the officer sued to contend that Government ought to be the defendant. The plaintiff may legally contend that he- has a right to look to the party by whose act he has been aggrieved whether he could or could not have sued that party‘s principle, The distinction is between suits on contracts and suits wrongs. In case of the latter kind, it will remain with Government to determine whether it would be just and proper that the defiance should be carried on at the expense of Government .The course should ordinarily be adopted only in cases where there is on reasonable doubt of the innocence of the accused. When, on the other hand, there is prima facie evidence that he has acted improperly, he should be left to conduct his own defence, the question of Government contributing towards the cost of the defence being subsequently considered. Whatever be the nature of the case,‘ failure to defend the suit, or to reply to the plaint in person or by counsel, as the case may require, will render the officer	or	subordinate	personally	responsible.
(2) Principles as to the conditions in which Government which pay the cost of defiance of its servants in criminal proceedings, are laid down in Chapter 12 of the Punjab Law Department Manual (1938)or the corresponding rules of the Law Manuals of other integrating Units.
1.125. An officer receiving a subpoena to produce official documents in a Court of Law should, provided the documents be specified, produce them to the Court unless they are unpublished official records relating to any affairs of State, when he must refer to the officer at the head of his Department.
(2) The following instructions should be observed hen any Government servant is summoned to produce Government files in a Corn”. of law for the purposes of evidence-
(1) The law is stated in sections 123,124 and 162 of the Evidence Act under section 162, a Government servant if summoned by a Court of law as a witness to produce a document in his possession and power must brig it to the Court.
      —Document” is defined -
Chap-I	ESTABLISHMENT MISCELLANEOUS	1.125
RULES
In section 3 of the act. A file is not a. document, and the Court should insist on the required document being specified. A court may, however, to overcome the difficulty ask for the production of all documents in any particular file or relating to any particular subject. Objection cannot be taken under section 123 of the Act, to the production as evidence of any published official record or any unpublished record which is not official. But a Government servant is forbidden under section 123 to disclose in evidence any document which is an unpublished official record relating to an affair of State, or even to give evidence derived from such a document, without the permission of officer at the head of the department concerned. If the head of the department declares that the document is an unpublished official record relating to any affairs of State, even the court cannot inspect it, as correspondence between Government Officers and their superiors and unpublished orders are affairs of State. P privilege may be claimed in respect of any unpublished official document whether —Confidential” or not. The Court is bound under section 123 to determine the question of admissibility solely upon the objection and statement of the officer appearing with it.
(2) In regard to the production of documents in evidence before courts the following questions arise:-
      (a) whose permission should be obtained to the production of a document?
      (b) What documents should be allowed to be produced?
There is no authority as to the interpretation of the words —Head of Department” as used in section 123 of the Evidence Act, but for the purpose of this section it will be sufficient if that expression is taken to mean the head of the office in whose custody the document is and ,is-a-vis -vis the court which demands production, he should be the authority who withholds or gives the necessary permission. But in deciding what course he should take when required to product a document, he may, and often should, refer the matter executively	for	orders	to	a	superior	authority.
(c) 25	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT	( CODE .1
(3) The ordinary working rule relating to the supply of correspondence is that the permission of the- highest authority concerned in the correspondence is necessary before a copy is given. This rule should be operative in the case under consideration unless the - .correspondence is of a purely routine nature in which case the head of the office should ordinarily allow, production. If it is not of a purely routine nature, the head of the office should refer the matter through the usual channels to the authority concerned, who should ‘be guided by the following, principles:—
(a) He should ordinarily authorise the head of the office to allow production if the correspondence does not relate to matters which are usually, regarded as confidential or to matters which, are in dispute in some other connection, or which may be in dispute between Government and some other party.
(b) He should instruct the head of the office to withhold production when the conditions in -
      (a) above are not satisfied.
(c) If the matter is open to doubt, he should similarly refer the case for orders to still higher authority.
(4) In respect of documents emanating (1) from a higher authority, viz., the President of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, the Central Government or the. West Pakistan Government, or which have formed the subject of correspondence with such‘ higher authority, or (2) from other Governments, whether foreign or Dominion, the head of’ the Department should obtain the consent of the Central Government through the usual official channels before agreeing to produce the documents in Court, or allowing evidence based on them, unless the papers are intended for publication, or are of a purely formal or routine nature, when a reference to higher authority may be dispensed with. -
(5) The above instructions do not refer to the production of official correspondence on behalf of Government in judicial proceedings to which Government is a party. In such cases the question of production will be governed largely by the nature of the legal advise in regard to the value‘- or otherwise of their production, but when

RULES
 it is considered desirable to produce correspondence relating to matters, which are usually regarded as a confidential, the necessary reference should invariably he made to higher authority.
(6) The head of the office, from whom the production of document has been demanded, should abstain from entering into correspondence with the presiding officer of the Court concerned in regard to the reasons for which production is required. His correct procedure is to appear either personally or to arrange for the appearance of a Clerk, in the Court concerned with the requisitioned documents and either to agree to the production of the documents in evidence or to claim privilege according to the decision he has reached in pursuance of the principles enunciated in paragraphs 3 and 5 above. If he claims privilege he should produce or arrange for the production of, a certificate in the font given in sub-paragraph
      (7).
Note —The underlying principal on which the claim of privilege for unpublished official records relating to affairs of state rests is that, while the right decision of case is undo beadily a matter of high public interest there re documents and even classes of document in the case is in the custody of Government it whose protection from publication might be of even grater importance to the public interest .Accordingly in each case of the relevant kind the authority concerned must weight the interest of justice in the particular case against the arger public interest in .In deciding weather or not to claim privilege the possibility of Government gaining a pecuniary or advantage by with holding documents should	however	carry	no	weight
(7) The Government servant who has to attend a Court as witness with a file should be given an order, duly signed by the head of the department or head of office concerned, in the form below .When called to the witness-box the Government servant thou d produce this order and say that he is not it at liberty to produce the documents before the Court, or to give	any	evidence	derived	from	them.
ORDER
       SUMMON FROM THE COURT OF THE	FOR THE PRODUCTION
      AT 	OF THE OFFICER FILES RELATING TO THE 	
   (a) I direct		to appeal
Chap. 11	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT LODE	[1.126
with the flies mentioned in the summons a brief description of which is given below and to claim privilege for them under section 123 of the Evidence Act.
      *
(b) Having examined the documents mentioned in the summons I withhold permission to give any evidence derived from the files for which privilege is claimed under this order.
It should be represented to the court that these files contain unpublished official records relating to the affairs of state for the purpose of section 123 that, in view of the provisions of section 162 of the Evidence Act, the files are not open to the inspection of the court.
Head of Department
      Dated 		the	
*	Hero insert a brief desorption of the nature of the documents summonsed together with
the reasons for claiming privilege for example this document is a report of a criminal investigation Department officer making a secret inquiry into a case of fraud and it is undesirable in the interests of the inquiry that its contents should be disclosed.
      (8) It should seldom be necessary for a Civil Court to sent for files of a Government Office or for the record of a court. In many cases, a certified copy is sufficient (Sections 65 and 77 of the Indian Evidence Act).
      in cases where the production of an office file or a - public document in evidence is considered necessary and court calls for such file or document and desires to retain it as a part of the judicial file, the attention of the Presiding Officer should be drawn to the provision of Rule 5, order XIII of the Code of Civil Procedure. Under sub-clause (2) of this Rule it is open to a court, in cases where a document is an entry In a public record, to require a copy of the entry to be furnished by one or other party to the vase. Sub-clause (3) of the same Rule further lays down that the document n which the re event entry occurs shall ,after proper examination and certification of the copy, be returned to the person producing it. (High Court‘s letter No.47148- R/XX-C/16, dated the 23rd Mat 1938 and No.9917-R/XX-C/16,dated the 24th November 1941.)
      1126. Supervision of the legal affairs of the department is exercise by the Solicitor to whom references should be made through the Chief Engineer except in regard to certain .Civil suits for which the superintending Engineers are controlling authority under rule 15.1 and 15.2 Chapter 15 of the law Department.
Chap. I)	ESTABLISHMENT MISCELLANEOUS	1.127
RULES
(2	The conduct of all civil suits affecting Government or its officers in their officinal
capacity, will be in accordance with the rules contained in the Punjab Law Department Manual, and corresponding rules of other integrating units.
I V—Security Deposits
1.127 The classes of Establishment specified below must furnish cash security, the amount. (which will be subject in all cases to the minimum prescribed against each class) being fixed by the Chief Engineer. Regional Engineer Officer (in case of his office establishment ) and the Superintending Engineer (in case of men employed in his circle), with reference to the amount of cash or value of stores which each individual is to handle from time to time
or according to the circumstances and local conditions in each case.
1Cashiers, Permanent and temporaryRs. 500 plus two sureties, of Rs. 1, 000 each (The persons standing as sureties must own immovable	property	)2StorekeepersRs.2503Sub StorekeepersThe amount to be fixed in each case by the Chief Engineer regional Engineer
Officer in case of his establishment and by the superintending	Engineer	in	case	of
Establishment employed in his circle4Other establishment entrusted with the custody of each of stores5Store MunshiRs.220. At the time of appointment.6    (a) Temporary subordinatesRs.300 (Rs.1000 at the time of appointment and a bond with two sureties for the remaining sum of Rs.200 to be paid in 20 monthly in stamens of Rs.10 each the bond to be cancelled on completion of full security .
(b) Temporary sub Rs. 50 at the time of appoint ordinates employ on department survey work.


1.118—1.131)	PUBIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE
Notes -(1) No security is required to be taken from a permanent man.
      (2) No security need be taken from permanent clerks and other subordinator, when they are required to officiate in appointments in which security is generally takens if the officiating appointment is	not	expected to	continue	beyond	six months.
(3) The security deposit claimed on behalf of a deceased Pubic Works Department subordinate should be paid without the production of the usual legal authority after such inquiry into the rights and title of the claimants as may be deemed sufficient
(1) to the extent of Rs. 500 under orders of the Executive Engineers or other officer responsible for the payment, (2) under the orders o Government for amounts in excess of Rs. 500, lb is considered that the rights and title of the claimants are proper and that undue delay and hardship. would be caused by insisting on the production of letters of administration. An indemnity bond, with such sureties an may be necessary, should be executed before payment is made. In any case of doubt payment should be made only to the	person	producing	legal	authority.
V—STATIONERY AND FORMS
1.128 .	Stationery is supplied to public officers by the Government Stationery Office
(Head quarter and others regional headquarters Officers other than those to whom power has been delegated as per Annexure A & B to Chapter II of this Code are prohibited from obtaining elsewhere articles which can be procured from the Stationery Office except under orders of Government in each case
(2.)	No articles of stationery whether for English or Vernacular work that is available
in provincial or regional Stationery offices should be purchased locally. Local purchase will,, however, be permissible only in the case of cheap indigenous articles of inferior quality. required for use in the Vernacular Offices, and not available in Provincial and Regional Stationery officers .
1.129 . The rules regarding the supply and preparation of indents for the various kinds of printed forms in use in the Department are laid down in the Printing and Stationery Manual and should be carefully observed.
1.130 All officers entrusted with a supply of stationery and forms for their official use will take proper precautions to keep them in the custody of a responsible and trustworthy person and to maintain a record of the receipts, issues and balances. Stock should be verified annually and the certificate of verification recorded in the register of stationery over the signature of a gazetted or other responsible officer
1.131 Standard forms cannot be altered without the previous sanction of the Chief Engineer, Buildings and Roads Department or in the case of Accounts forms of the Comptroller and Auditor-General of Pakistan, or Director, Audit and Accounts Works, West Pakistan, who will, however, obtain concurrence of the Government in the Administrative Departments to any important changes or modifications. Alter aments to any additions to nonstandard or provisionally stand
Chap I]	ESTABLISHMENT-MISCELLANEOUS [1.132-1.134
RULES
standardized forms will not be made without the sanction of the Head of the Department or the Controlling Officer as the case may be
      1.132 . Forms of deeds and other documents which are not already stereotyped will be settled by the Law Officers of the Government and furnished through the Chief Engineer to whom all applications on such matters should be addressed
VI—Destruction of Official Records .
      1.133 When a minimum period after which any class of records may be destroyed has been presented by Government in Irrigation, Communications and Works Department Divisional Officers may order in writing the destruction of such record, in their own and subordinate offices on the expiry of that period counting from the last day of the latest official year covered by the record Superintending Engineers are competent to sanction the destruction of such other record in their own and subordinate offices as may be considered unless but a list of such records as properly appertain to the accounts of the department should be forwarded to the Audit officer for his concurrence in their destruction before the destruction is ordered by the superintending Engineer full details should be maintained permanently in each officers Pakistan woman association from 97 of all records destroyed from time to time The following should on no accounts be destroyed .
(i) Records connected with expenditure which is within —the statue of limitation — —Estimates and Level Books of the Major Works”
 (ii) Record‘s connected with expenditure on woks not completed although beyond the person of limitation.
(iii) Records connected with claims to service and personal matters connected with persons in the service.
       (iv) Records of experiments and observations.
      (v) Calculations relating to particular designs .
(2) The various kinds of records and the periods fixed for their preservation arc given in Appendix II of this code
(3) The destruction of records will always be subject to any general 01 special rules issued by the by the Buildings and toads Department Manuals of Orders
VII—General rules, of office procedure
1.134. No Officer should correspond direct with an authority superior to the office under whom he is immediately serving or with .
1.135-1.137 PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[Chap. I
the West Pakistan Government or the Central Government, out of the regular course, except in a case of extreme emergency, in which case he must send copies of his communications to his immediate superior. All Gazetted Officers may‘ write direct to the Director (Establishment) about	personal	matters	when	no	reply	is	required.
(2) Officers are similarly prohibited from approaching members of Legislatures or Ministers either personally or through the medium of a friend or relation or to disclose to them information of which their knowledge is official and not personal.
1.135. Letters containing proposals concerning other departments should, so far as is needful, be accompanied by reference to the opinion of the officer concerned (in the case of a building, of the officer occupying it) and of the head of the department on the spot.
1.136. Demi -official correspondence should be made use of sparingly and only in cases of extreme urgency or secrecy, or to supplement and explain a matter which has been or is about	to	be,	referred	officially.
(2) No demi-official correspondence should be quoted or referred to in official communications, and, unless such ‘correspondence has been brought on record with the approval of Government, order conveyed in it cannot be regarded as being the official orders of Government. It is, therefore, necessary that all instructions which have in the first instance, been conveyed demi-officially should be confirmed in an official communication.
1.137. The following rules prescribe the methods of dealing with secret and confidential correspondence; maps and books should be treated in the same way
(i) In all offices, care should be exercised in deciding whether a particular documents is to
be classified as ‘secret” or —Confidential” or not and the decision should invariably be made by a responsible authority. While it is essential that all papers, the contents of which are in reality secret or confidential, should be so treated in every offer to which they are sent, it is also very desirable that the same treatment should not be extended, as is often the case, to papers whose contents are neither secret nor confidential. An indiscriminate use of these designations produces much unnecessary trouble and waste of time, and has its danger intending to lessen the attention which is paid to them. Papers may
ESTABLISHMENT-MISCELLANEOUS RULES
 Sometimes be secret or confidential only until the occurrence of .some particular event or announcement, and in such cases it is useless to continue afterwards to treat them in this way.
(ii) Secret documents, being intended only for the personal information of the Government or individual to whom they are issued or of those officers whose duties they affect, should be kept by the officer, to whom they are addressed, in his persona) custody. The documents should be locked in a safe or other receptacle, of which the officer should himself keep, the key or keys. A list of such documents should be maintained by him and also of confidential correspondence kept by him (if any) and when relieved of his appointment, he should hand over the keys and he list to his successor. An exception may be made in the case of the Secret Police abstracts, which may be treated as if they were marked confidential.
(iii) Confidential correspondence should ordinarily be kept’ ‘in office under lock and key ‘in the custody‘ of the Superintendent or Head Clerk but the officer to whom the correspondence is ‘addressed will exercise his discretion, as to the necessity of retaining it in his own personal custody.
(iv) The Superintendent or Head Clerk will keep tinder lock and key all confidential
documents in his custody and will maintain a proper receipt, issue and return register therefore.
(v) On taking over charge on transfer, an officer should show in his transfer report that he (a) has received all the documents shown in the list referred to in rule (ii) above, and (b) has seen documents shown by the Superintendent or Head Clerk‘s‘ register to be in the custody of the Superintendent or Head Clerk. Any irregularities noticed should be included in his report. A new Superintendent or Head Clerk on receiving charge will report to his ‘superior officer whether he has received/in good order (or otherwise), all the ‘confidential correspondence made over to him by his predecessor.
(vi) The list ad register referred to ‘above should be periodically examined with a view to destroying, or amalgamating with general (Correspondence any correspondences. (other than maps or books) which has ceased to be secret or confidential.
vi.138- 1.139) WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[Chap.
(vii) No hard and fast rules need be laid down for the copying and issue of confidential letters,
it being left to the discretion of the officer to decide by whom the work may safely be done.
(viii) When confidential papers are sent out of an office they should be put into double sealed covers The inner one should be marked —confidential” and be superscripted. whenever this is possible, with the name of the addressee, who alone should open it The outer cover should have no marking any kind on it to indicate that its contents are of a confidential nature and should bear the official designation of the addressee only Letters or packets containing se ‘ret or confidential papers should unless the resultant delay is fatal to the object in view, invariably be registered, and those containing secret papers should also be sent acknowledgement due Certain secret and confidential books, reports maps, ete, are issued by Army Headquarters direct to the Heads of Provincial Government and Administrations who are held personally responsible to the Chief of the General Staff for their safe Custody Instructions have been issued by the Chief of the General Staff for the custody and disposal of such papers, and these instructions should be carefully observed Subordinate officers to whom these secret documents are entrusted by the West Pakistan Government should observe the same instructions.
I. 138 The scale of typewriters allowed for use in the various offices of the Buildings and Roads Department is given in the Printing and Stationery Manual Machines required in excess thereof can only be purchased with the previous sanction of Government an the Irrigation-Communications and Works Department with the approval of the Finance Department.
(2)	Only machines of patterns approved by the West Pakistan Government-vide paragraph
11.1 of the printing and Stationery Manual may be purchased. Typewrites of other patterns already in use may be retained until‘ they become unserviceable and are condemned.
VIII-PERIODICAL RETURNS
1.139 With regard to periodical returns not prescribed by Government Officers to whom such returns are submitted should institute, at convenient interval.
Chap 1]	ESTABLISHMENT -MISCELLANEOUS [1.139
RULES
      of time examination into the necessity for each return, with a view to discontinue any that may be found to be no longer necessary
A list of periodical returns will be found in Appendix
IV of this Code.
(2) A list showing the reports and returns prepared under the orders of the West Pakistan Government or any other authority and submitted to or by Government in the Irrigation Communications and Works Departments and other authorities subordinate to it, is prepared and supplied to subordinate offices from time to time.
(3) No returns should be instituted without the previous approval of the Chief Engineer, as soon as to becomes apparent that any report or return is no longer necessary or can with advantage be curtailed or submitted at longer intervals than laid down in the list noted above, proposals should be submitted to the Chief Engineer, West Pakistan, Buildings and Roads Department through the proper channel .
