ANNEXURE
ANNEXURE CA‘ TO CHAPTER II
(REFERENCE PARAGRAPH 2 AND 3)
9.2 of D,P,R (Pb). Power in respect f purchase manufacture etc of stores and increases and decreases in the reserve stock lint (see Rules 6’2)
  S.NoNature of powersDepartmentExtent to which assent is given12341To sanction the purchase of livestock and the purchase manufacture and repair of articles included under eh minor head tools and plant except the purchase of motor vehicles.Buildings and roads department.Up to Rs.40,000 in any one case.2To sanction purely temporary increases of the reserve stock limits of a divisionDittoFull powers provided such increases are absorbed within six months from the date of increase9. 2 of power of the according of administrative approval and the sanctioning of estimates etc Rule 7.8.

Note—-In the case of large projects, the Finance Department may at the time o; intimating its concurrence in administrative approval to a general project estimate define the extent to which such concurrence permits of the presumption of Finance Department assent. to the sanction of the working estimate when these are prepared prior to the issue of technical sanction by the authority concerned.
Serial
NaNature of powerDepartmentExtent to which assent is given   12341 Administrative approval in expenditure on minor works other than works in connection with a building intended to be used as the residence of a Government servant or a S-house or inspection bungalow and works such s. tube. Well and pumping plants, etc., the running cost of which will exceed Rs. 1,200 per annum.Ali Departments except Forest and Irrigation Department.Full powers, subject to the condition that J the total expenditure which It is proposed to incur on a particular building within a single financial year exceeds Rs. 10,000 the con. currency of the Finance Department must be obtained before incurring any pert of it.

     [Annexure ]	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[Chap.II
Serial
NaNature of powerDepartmentExtent to which assent is given    12342Administrative approval to expenditure on minor works is connections purchase or conversion of a balding intended to be used as the residence of a Government servantAll Department- Pull power provided (a) that the standard rent as calculated under Fundamental Rule 45-A or rule 5.23 of the Civil Services Rules (Punjab). Volume I. does not exceed 12 ‘A per cent of the average pay of the class of Government servant who will usually occupy the building; (b) that assent is not presumed to any such expenditure which is not expected to bring In an adequate return en the capital cost by reason of either no rent being charged or the rent to be charged	being	lees	than	that
recoverable under rule 45-A of the Fundamental Rules or under the rules In Chapter V of the Civil Services Rules (Punjab) Volume I end (c) that the building is assigned to the holder of a specified post whole bound by the	terms	to	live	in	It.
Before giving financial con. Sent to expenditure, In respect of estimates classified as Major works, the Finance Department will require to be satisfied that the conditions specified above are fulfilled with the substitution of 10 for 12 A per cent In proviso (a). Up to a limit of Rs. 1.000 In each case Irrespective of the coat of the building and subject to any general orders of the competent authority regulating the supply by Government of any special fittings in any particular type of residence and to the provisos that-
(i) When the residence Is classed as Major or a Minor work remains so after the proposed work is carried out, the standard rent as calculated under Fundamental Rule 45.3Administrative approval to expenditure on original works in connection with existing residential buildingsBuilding & Roads Department
     [Chap-II)	ANNEXURE A
Serial
NaNature of powerDepartmentExtent to which assent is given    1234    3Administrative approval to Buildings and Roads expenditure on original Department. works in connection with exulting residential building s concledBuilding & Roads DepartmentA, or under the rules in Chapter V of the Civil Services Rules (Punjab). Volume I, on the final capital cost does not exceed 10 per cent or 12 ^ per cent, respectively, as the case may be, of the average pay of the class of Government servants who usually accuracy the bodings
(ii) When the residence Is already classed as a Minor work and becomes
a Major work after the proposed work is carried out the consent of the Finance Department must be obtained before any expenditure is incurred on it. The
power conferred above may be exercised in respect of buildings allowed rent. free, provided that the necessary for allotment has been accepted by the Finance Department
STATEMENT SHOWING POWERS DELEGATED TO VARIOUS OFFICERS IN TUE
INTEGRATING UNITS immediately BEFORE l4th OCTOBER 1966.
TO SANCTION PURCHASE MANUFACTURE ETO OF STORES
Serial
NaNature of powerDepartmentExtent to which assent is given    1234    3To purchase office furniture up to RS. 1.000 for each estimate provided the sanction to an estimate exceeding RS. 500 is confirmed by Chief Engineer before purchase of articles (Rule 10 -2).Superintending engineer building and Road Department.

Serial
NaNature of powerTo whom delegatedExtent    1234    6To sanction estimate for purchase and manufacture of tools and plants (excluding live stock tents office furniture and motor vehicles (Rule 10.2)Superintending Engineer building and road department up to Rs 4.000 for each estimate.
Selected Executive engineer Building and road up to Rs.500 for each estimate non selected Executive Engineer up to 200 for each estimate
Superintending Engineer full powers within the budget provision for their respective circles Executive Engineer building & roads Department selected Rs .1.000 non selected Rs.5,000.11To sanction estimate for repairs and carriage of tools and plant rule 10.2)20To order from a Government W/S materials stores or manufactured articles for which due provision has been made in a sanctioned estimated    1To sanction estimates for purchase or manufacture of materials to be used on works (Rule 10.3).Superintending Engineers full powers within the lime sanctioned reserve stock
Superintending Engineers full powers within the lime sanctioned reserve stock
Executive Engineer full powers within the limits sanctioned for reserve stock subject to the approval or sanction of the estimate being obtained where required by the provision of paragraphs 4.24 and 2.25 of the building and road Department code    2To purchase or manufacture materials to the used on work
      To accord administrative to works (see paragraph 2.5 of buildings and road Department code rule 10.4 of D.F.R
       Note: the money limits specified in the delegations below relate to the entire estimated cost of a work including both original works and repairs if any and not merely to the cost of the proton relating only to original works
ANNEXURE
Serial
NoNature of powerTo whom delegatedExtent    1234To convey administrative approval to proposals for works other than residential building appertaining to their respective department falling under the following minor heads of 50 civil works original works building
A land revenue pro vicinal excise general administrative agriculture and industries fisheries onlyFinancial commissionerUp to Rs. 10,000 also for work appertaining to Colony towns falling under head 81 capital account of civil works outside the revenue Account(b) land revenue general administrationCommissioners of divisionsUp to Rs.3,5000 works appertaining to Civil rest houses dak bungalow treasury buildings and miscellaneous building relating to their Divisions.© Provincial ExciseDittoUp to Rs.3,5000, for works appertaining to the excise department(d ) registrationInspector General of recitationUp to Rs.5,000 for works appertaining to the department of registration(e ) General administration of justiceJugs of the high curtUp to Rs.10,000 for works pertaining to the high court district and sessions court sub ordinate judges courts and subsidiary buildings(g ) jals and convict sentimentInspector General of prisonsUp to Rs. 5,000 for works appertaining to central and district jails lock ups and miscellaneous building of the jail department


Serial
NoNature of power      To whom delegatedExtent1234(h ) Police(I ) inspector General of policeUp to Rs.5,000 for works appertaining to police lines and than as and miscellaneous building of the police departmentEuropean and anglo Pakistan education(ii ) Deputy inspector general of policeUp to Rs. 1,000 for works appearing to police lines and thanes and miscellaneous buildings of the police department(ii) European and anglo Pakistan educationDeputy inspector general of policeUp to Rs.5,000 for works appertaining to government collages ad schools and miscellaneous buildings or the education department( i) MedicalDeputy inspector general Civil HospitalUp to Rs.5,000 for works appertaining to hospitals and dispensaries medical collages and schools mental hospitals and miscellaneous building of the medical department(k ) police healthDirector of Public HealthUp to Rs.5,000 for works appearing to the Punjab vaccine institute and miscellaneous buildings of the department of public health( L Agriculture industries fisheries onlyDirector agricultureUp to Ts.5,000 for works appertaining to the department of agriculture and fisheries(m) veterinaryDirector of veterinary servicesUp to Rs,5.000 for works appertaining to the department of the veterinary department.(n )Co-operative credit"Up to Rs. 2, 500 for works appertaining to the co-operative societies department.(o) industries (except f industries (except fisheriesUp to Rs.2,500 for work appertaining to the Department of industries

[ANNEXURE-A
Serial
NoNature of power      To whom delegatedExtent12342To convey administrative approval to proposals for works other than residential buildings.Superintending engineers buildings and roads departmentFor all works both buildings and combination which do not appertaining to any particular department and to the extent of Rs.2,5000 provided that the amount for original works close not exceed Rs,2,500 only falling under the minor heads original works buildings civil works or communications of the major head 50 civil works3To convey administrative approval to estimates of capital expenditure on the construction or purchase of residences for Government servants to meet the requirements of their respective departmentHeads	of	Department
named in entryUp to Rs.2,000 for the total cost of buildings provided that the rental value of the building to fundamental rule 45-A or the rules in Chapter	V of the civil
services rules Punjab volume 1 shall not exceed	10	per cent of the average
emoluments of the class of govt servants for whom it is intended.4To convey administrative approval to estimates of capital expenditure on works in connection with existing residential buildings to meet the requirements of all the departmentChief Engineer..Up to Rs2, 000 and as in entry 3 above .5To convey administrative approval to estimates of capital expenditure on works in connection with existing residential buildingsDittoUp to Rs,4.000 for the total cost of building and as in entry 3 above .6To accord administrative approval to estimates of expenditure on works in connection with existing resident buildingsDitto...Up to limit of Rs.2000 for each case irrespective or the capital cost of the building which includes the cost of sanitary installations and as in entry 3 above.
*The power conferred in serial Nos. 3 to 6 in regard to administrative approval to minutes of expenditure on original works in connection with residential buildings may be exercised in respect if buildings allowed rent-flee, provided that the necessity for rent-free allotment has been accepted by the Finance Department.
[ANNEXURE -A ]	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[CHAP.II
Serial NoNature of powerTo whom delegatedExtent    1234Also that no addition is made which is not covered by the sanctioned type design or is of a nature not usually providedADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL TO WORKS
(Rules 20.15. of P.F.R    7To convey administrative approval to estimates for the repairs of patwarkhanas         Director of land record     Up to 250 in each case    8To convey administrative approval to estimates for the construction or repair of patwarkhans        Financial commissioners         Full Powers    9To convey administrative approval to proposals for works other than residential buildings       Inspector general of prisonsUp to Rs.2,500 only for works appertaining to central10To convey administrative approval to expenditure on all petty and annual repairs as well as original works or special repairs to building under the control of the border military police or baluch levy     1. Commissioner, multan
         Division
     2. Deputy Commissioner, Dera
         Ghazi Khan
     3. Commissioner, boader or
         commandant baluch levyUp to Rs.1,500
Up to Rs.,500
Up to Rs.30011To convey administrative approval to proposals for works other than residential buildings under paragraph 5.10 of the Punjab public works Department code second edition as applicable to Punjab PakistanInspector General of PoliceFor works of petty and annual repairs as well as original works or special repairs to buildings in the apartment falling under the minor head works of the major head 29- police and to the extent of Rs.2,500 only.

Annexure -A
Serial NoNature of powerTo whom delegatedExtent123412convey administrative approval to works for non residential buildings for the police departmentDeputy General of Police
Superintendents of police principal police training school	and	assistant
superintendents of police in charge of the Punjab constabulary     1.	For works of all petty and annual
repairs as well as original works or special repairs to building in the charge of the police department falling under the minor head works of the major head 29-police and to the extent of Rs1,500 only.
         ii. for works described in
i.	Above to the extent of Rs. 300.
         Only13To convey administrative approval to proposals for works including residential buildings for menialsDirector Animal Husbandry department PunjabFor works of petty and annual repairs to buildings such as kacha menials quarters implement sheds dutchbarns etc falling under the minor head works of the major head 41 veterinary and to extent of Rs.55,000 only*Menial — means the holder of a post in inferior service the expenditure on which is charged to contingencies .he is now called a low paid government servantTo convey administrative approval to proposals for works including residential building for menials and tenantsDirector of Agriculture PunjabFor petty original work relating to kacha pacca buildings and structures such as field office and laboratories stores implements workshop and juice boiling abeds bullock byres kacha or kacha pacca or pacca quarter for manilas and tenant pucca wells tanks water channels and culverts fences bird proof case the agricultural department including the fisheries section and the maintenance and repair of

ANNEXURE)	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	CHAP-II
Serial NoNature of power       To whom delegatedExtent1234Buildings and structures put by the Departments falling under the minor head works of the major head 40 agriculture and 43 industries and to the extent of Rs.2, 5000 only.*Note—The knobs structure is one where the work is -in wan dried bricks In .mud with burnt bricks in mud in certain essential places, such as jambs of doors and windows or arches. •
Menial” means the holder of a past in inferior service, the expenditure on which is charged to contingencies. lie is now called a low-head paid Government Servants rules 1O.5 of D.F.R(Pb).
TO	ACCORD TECHNICAL	SANCTION	TO	SANCTION ESTIMATES FOR AND
EXPENDITURE ON WORKS OR TO DIVERT PROVISION UNDER WORKS    19To accord technical sanction to detail estimate for original works and special repairsExecutive engineer building and road department selected officer otherRs.10,000 for each work up to 1,000 for each works      Executive Engineer
Excluding department charges for establishment and tools and plantUp to Rs. 1,000 for each works    25To accord technical sanction to estimates for maintenance and repairs       Chief EngineerFull Powers    26Ditto    Superintending EngineerUp to two lakh in each case and within the limits as singed for his circle in the budget estimate under each head of service    27To accord sanction to estimate for ordinary repairs      Executive EngineerWithin limits of sanctioned stereo typed estimates and budget allotment placed at their disposal    28To divert provision for contingencies of a sanctioned estimate to new works or repairs not provided for in the estimate    Superintending EngineerFull Powers    29.DittoExecutive Engineer
Selected officers class 1 selected officers class II & III
Non selectedRs.1,500
1,000
500
     CHAP-II	ANNEXURE -A)
Serial NoNature of powerTo whom delegatedExtent    1234    7To issue work order for works and repairs
DittoExecutive Engineer
    Sub Divisional officerUp to Rs.10,	000 subject to the
condition that the amount exceeds the powers of Sub-Divisional officers
4, 000    3to create posts of work charge establishment in connection with handing and oust day etc of stockSuperintending EngineerUp to Rs. 50 per mensem for each post so create and subject to the conditions
     a) Necessary funds either
already exist or have been provided by competent authority
     b) The pay and allowances of no
such posts shall exceed the prescribed rates in cases where such rates have been definitely laid down by a higher authority for any particular lass of appointments    4To accept tenders    Sub Divisional officersUp to Rs.4,000Grants , concessions, leases, etc (rule 2.45)  Serial
NoNature of power      To whom delegatedExtent    1234  20.418Security bonds for the due performance of duties by government servantsChief Engineer superintending Engineer divisional officers buildings and roads departmentIn cases of government servants whom they are empowered to appoint to vacant	posts cribbed in paragraphs
1.154 of the building and roads department code second edition)28To sanction leases for grazing cattle on road sidesSuperintending Engineer .Executive EngineersFull powers up to year, provided the rental does not exceed Rs. 500.

Serial NoNature of powerTo whom delegatedExtent1234    28To sanction leases of houses, land, or other immovable property belonging to Government.(i)Superintending Engineers, Buildings and Roads Department.
(II) Divisional officers Buildings and Roads Department.Up to one year ,provided that the rent of the property as fied by competent authority does not exceed.
     (i)	Rs. 200 a month.
     (ii)	Rs. 100 a month.    30To sanction agreements with auctioneers for conducting the sale of Government stores by public auction.Superintending Engineers Buildings Roads Department.Up to 1 year only and subject to the condition that the terms of the leases are those embodied in Stereo Building and Roads No. 93.20.6 Rewards, fees, bonus, remuneration, grants for uniform and equipment, etc. (accepting fees and honoraria Granted to Government Servants) under the F.D. and C.S.R (Pb). Vol.I, Part I.Serial NoNature of powerTo whom delegatedExtent1234  20.6(1)To grant cash rewards to meet funeral and other unavoidable expenses to the relations of all Government servants drawing pay up to Rs. 350 per mensem, who are killed or die of injury received as a result of special risk of office in the performance of their duties.Head of Departments.Subjects to a maximum of Rs. 500.To sanction recurring expenditure on the maintenance and repair of clocks in offices.Head Of Offices • -Up to a limit of Rs.7 a month- repair s, cleaning and oiling of office clock should be entrusted to a recognized firm of watch makers.To entertain temporary establishment chargeable to hot and cold weather charges, as for instance, punk has coolies.Ditto..Rs.15 or the market rate as fixed by the Deputy Commissioners, Whichever is greater, and for a period not exceeding six months in each case.

Serial NoNature of power       To whom delegatedExtent1234To sanction the Payment of rent for lands and houses occupied by Government for other than office and residential purposes.Head of departments (except Forest Superintending Engineers and Commissioners of Divisions).Up to a maximum of Rs. 58 a month.(Rent-house are included in houses for residential purposes).Subject to the proviso that no lease is entered into for a period of more than one year and to the condition of paragraph 82 of Appendix 14.To sanction the payment of rates or taxes levied by statute or by local rules or orders (as for instance, terminal tax or octroion Government stores.)Ditto ..Subject to the existence of budget provision.To sanction supply of liveries summer clothing, belts, cross belts, badges, and warm clothing to peons and menials.     (i)	Head of offices
and
Departments.Subject to the conditions in the rules for supply of liveries, etc, in Appendix 15.To sanction purchase of type-writers for themselves and offices subordinate to themHeads of Departments, Superintending Engineers, Buildings and roads Department, Principal, the Punjab Collage of Engineering and Technology, Lahore, Principal, Government School of Engineering, Punjab, Resul.Subject to the rules and conditions in Chapter 12 of the Stationery and Printing Manual (Fourth Edition) and to the proviso that in case where no scale of typewriters has been fixed the power can be exercised only in respect to machines purchased to replace those which have been condemned by the Board.To sanction the hiring of typewriters of approved peters for use in their own offices and offices subordinate to them.Disbursing OfficersFor a period not exceeding two months.To sanction purchase of duplicators and duplicating machines.Heads Departments and Controlling Officers.Up to Rs. 180 for each machine and subject to the Rules in Chapter 12 of the Printing and Stationary Manual (Fourth Edition).

Serial NoNature of power       To whom delegatedExtent1234To sanction purchase of bicycles for the use of their own offices, as well as for certain subordinate offices.     Head of DepartmentsBicycles may be provided for the use of office messengers employed in district headquarters offices, in Settlement Offices, in the Offices of Head of Departments and in headquarter offices subordinate to heads of departments in cases where their supply is rendered clearly necessary by the requirements of public business, provided.
(1) That not more than one bicycle shall not be used for private purposes;
(2) That Government bicycles shall not be used for private purposes;
(3) That bicycles shall be of the type adopted for Government offices. (The price of those bicycles in notified from time to time by Government); and
(4) That before sanctioning any such purchase the sanction in authority should consider whether, in view of the saving of time effected by the use of bicycles, a simultaneous reduction cannot be made in the inferior establishment of the office concerned, and ordinarily the purpose should not be allowed unless such a reduction is effected.To sanction purchase of periodicals and newspapers required for official use.Head of Departments and Controlling Officers.Without limit, subject to budget provision.To sanction purchase of Books and maps.Head of Departments and Controlling Officers.Without restriction.To sanction the purchase of stylographic and fountain pens in the local markets.Controlling OfficersFull powers, subject to the condition that pens are or chased only for the use of Stenographers.
Serial NoNature of power       To whom delegatedExtent1234To sanction employment of local agency for purposes of book binding in all cases in which the papers to be bound, e.g.. like settlement and annual records, are such as ought not to be bound otherwise than under the supervision of an official of the land Records Staff,(2) the papers are such that, owing to the constant need for reference, they cannot without great inconvenience be spared out of the office for the time which a jail Press or the Government Press would ordinarily occupy in doing the work, and (3) cases in which railway freight to and from Lahore plus cost of binding will amount to more than local binding charges.      Head of Offices- • •Full powers subject to the condition and terms laid down in paragraph 9.5 of the Punjab printing and Stationery Manual (Fourth Edition).To sanction expenditure in emergent cases on account of binding works executed locally.(i)Head of Departments and Superintending and Engineer’ s Buildings and Roads Department.
(ii)Executive Engineers.Up to a limit of Rs. 10 in each case.
Up to a limit of Rs. 5 in each case and subject to total expenditure of Rs.50 in any one financial year.To sanction small monthly payments to menials and inferior servants for supplying drinking water for dusting offices or for other purposes of a like nature.Head of Departments.Subject to the following conditions:-
(a) That the payments are of a purely contingent character, are drawn on contingent bills and may be withdrawn at any time at the discretions of the Head of department.
(b) That the allowance will not count for leave allowances or pension; and

Serial NoNature of powerTo whom delegatedExtent1234(c ) that in the case of menials or inferior servants already in permanent employment in receipt of monthly rate of pay the payment must one exceed a sum of Rs.2 a month in any one case further the scanting authority must in sanctioning any such pay mints record his reasons therefore and must satisfy himself.
1. That the work to be
done is really necessary
2. That it is outside the
regular duties of a menials or inferior servant on the permanent establishment and
3. That the grate of the
extra allowance to any such menial or inferior servant is distinctly more economical that the employment of fresh agencyTo sanction the renting of office accommodation for superintending engineers superintendents of works executive engineers sub- divisional officersSuperintending EngineersUp to a maximum of Rs.100 per menses in case of superintending engineers superintending of works and Executive engineers and to a maximum of Rs.30 per menses in case divisional officers and subject to the production of a non accommodation certificate as required by note 3 under 3.10 of buildings and roads department code and to the further provision that no lease is entered into for a period of more that one year.
     [CHAP. II	ANNEXURE- A
Serial NoNature of power  To whom delegatedExtent1234     2. When it is provided in the
building in which the government resides
a) If he happens to the an Executive Engineer in charge of a division or a Superintendent of works or
b) If he happens to be a sub Divisional officerSuperintending Engineers
Superintending
EngineersUp to Rs.30 a month and in special cases up to a maximum of Rs. 45 per mansem but in no case must the rent paid by government exceed half the rent of the whole house and subject other conditions noted against clause (I ) above
A fair proportion of the rent may paid by government up to a maximum of rs 20 per mensem is sub ject to other conditions noted against clause (I) above106To purchase in the local market articles of stationery required for the use of students apprentices or candidates for admission to the institutionPrincipal the Punjab collage of Engineering and technology Lahore and principal govt school of engineering Punjab resultFull powers107To sanction replacement of unserviceable bicycle originally purchased with the sanction of the chief engineerSuperintending
Engineers	buildings
and roads department principal of the Punjab collage of engineering technology	Lahore
and	principal
government school of engineering	Punjab
result.Subject to the fowling conditions
(I ) that the bicycle has become unserviceable by fair wear and tear and has been in use for not less than 10 years
(2 ) that the cost will be met form the front for contingencies at the disposal of the office where the bicycle is to be replaced and
(3) that bicycles to the purchased are of the type approved for government offices ( the price of these bicycles is notified from time to time by government).108To grant a fixed monthly allowance on account of kerosine oil use for per forming duties at nightHead of offices in the Buildings and Roads DepartmentUp to the following limits :-
(i) Treasury Guards Rs. 1 to Rs 9.

     ANNEXURE- A	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[CHAP. II
Serial NoNature of powerTo whom delegatedExtent1234(11) Chowkidars As 8 to Rs.2
(12) Gauge reader as 8 to Rs. 1
a) No allowance will be granted to treasury guards at places where electric light is provided
b) The rate in each case will be fixed according to the locality and the amounting of work required to be done
c) Wherever it can be conveniently arranged oil should be supplies in kind in preference to case allowance   110To sanction purchase of books of reference1. Executive Engineering charge of Division
2.	The principal
engineering school resultOnly one or two copies of time and fair tables and goods tariff of north western railway
Up to Rs.20 excluding postage for each purchase subject to the following conditions
      1.	That the grant for office
contingencies is not exceeded
      2.	That the total expenditure
in any one finical year dose not exceed Rs.50   112To sanction purchase of booksExecutive EngineersFull powers subject to budget provision   113To sanction expenditure on the making of any model for which no specific estimate of the work has been sanctionedConsulting Architect to Government PunjabUp to a limit of Rs. 50 of any one model
Serial NoNature of power  To whom delegatedExtent1234114To sanction the supply of liveries and warm clothing to the regular menial staff employed on boat bridgesSuperintending Engineers buildings and roads branchTo the extent	of the provision for
liveries and warm clothing existing in the sanctioned maintenance estimate for the boat bridge concerned and provided that the maximum cost of each livery and warm clotting dose not exceed Rs.
15 and Rs.13 respectively and that the former is supplied annually and the latter every two years116To sanction purchase of ferro- chemicalsSuperintending engineersUp to an annual limit of Rs. 75 only for each ferroprinting officeNote No. 1 in the public works Department powers are delegated to executive engineers who are selected for higher powers according to their length of service in the following manner:-
        Officers of over 16 years service
        Officers from 12 to 16 years service
        Officers of under 12 years service
Note No.2 -note I above does not apply to members of the provincial service of Engineers (Assistant Engineers ) such officers when appointed to decisional charge shall in the absence of special orders in any individual case exercise the powers of selected officers under 12 years services
ANNEXURE ‘B‘ TO CHAPTER II BUILDINGS AND ROADS DEPARTMENT CODE
Reference paragraph 2.2 and 213)
DELEGATION OF POWERS UNDER FINANCIAL RULES AND
POWERS OF RE. APPROPRIATION
(FINANCE DEPARTMENT LETTER NO FD.SOI (FR)-16/59, DATED
12TH JANUARY 1959).
            Pending the framing of Financial Rules for West Pakistan the Financial Rules in force in the integrating units on the appointed date, shall continue to remain In force in the areas in question, provided that the offices the headquarters of which are located in the areas formerly comprised within the states indicated below, will be government by the Rules of the integrating units shown against each:-
Khairpur State		Sind.
Bahawalpur State...	Punjab.
Baluchistan States Union. ..	Baluchistan.
2. In these orders, powers have been delegated to the Communications and Works Department, Chief Engineer and officers of the Buildings and Roads Department falling in the three categories as indicated ha Appendix ‘B‘.
      The nature and extent of the powers delegated is shown in Appendix (A)
3. These delegations are in supersession of all previous delegations of powers in respect of the Items specifically mentioned in Appendix — A”.
4. Powers, which are not specifically mentioned in Appendix —A” and which were delegated to various officers in the integrating units, immediately before the 14th October, 1955, shall, however, to be exercised by the corresponding officers of the West Pakistan Government, provided that in the offices located in. the areas which formerly pertained to the States referred to in paragraph 2 above, the officers will exercise the powers delegated to corresponding officers in the integrating units, indicated opposite each. Where the jurisdiction of an officer extends to the area,	which	includes	whole
or part of two or more integrating units, he will exercise within the area of each integrating unit such powers as stood originally delegated to corresponding officers within that area provided that the powers delegated to the Chief Engineers of the various provinces will now be exercised by the Regional Additional Chief Engineers in the areas in question.
5. The powers delegated to various offices immediately before 14th October 1955 are detailed in statement following Appendix ‘B‘ to this annexure.
APPENDIX —A”
              The Communications and Works Deportment will have full powers to issue orders creating posts provided (i) Budget provision exists, and (ii) post-to be created is specifically shown in the Budgets. The creation of the posts will be for the period for which provision has been made in the Budget a shorter period. Chief Engineer and Officers in Category I, will have the same powers in respect of Class II	and	subordinate	services	posts.
              Where no detailed Budget provision exists but there is merely a lump sum provision, or a lump sum allocation of funds has been made or savings are secured by permanent retrenchment of sanctioned establishment which has been in existence for a period of not less than one year, the Communications and Works Department, and the Chief Engineer may create temporary Class II and nongazetted posts for a period not exceeding six months. Officials in Category I may create non-gazetted posts of which the maximum of the pay scale is less than Rs. 150 per mensem for the same period. -
              The Communication and Works Department will have full powers for abolition of temporary posts under their control. The Chief Engineer may abolish all Class II and non-gazetted posts and officers in category I, non-gazetted posts, the maximum of the pay scale of which is less than Es. 150 Per mensem.
              All orders regarding creation and abolition of. Posts passed by the Communications and Works Department or by the Chief Engineer and other Officers in exercise of the delegation should be communicated to Audit and copies endorsed to Finance Department.
11-SANCTIONING EXPENDITURE DEBATABLE TO CONTINGENCIES
       A. The powers of Communications and Works Department, Chief Engineer and other
officers to sanction contingent expenditure which is exhibited in Budget Estimates in detail are indicated below:
Communication & Works Department .	Full powers
Chief Engineer	Full powers
Officers in Category I	Each item not exceed	in	Rs. 1,	000.
Officers in Category II	Each item not exceeding Rs.1,	000
Officers in Category III	Each item not exceed	in	Rs.200
B. Where, however, lump sum Budget provision or allocation of funds exists and individual items
       are not specified in detail, powers to sanction expenditure are indicated below:-
A-OFFICER REQUIREMENTS
  (i) Local purchase of stationery
 Communication & Works Department
 Local	purchase	of	Stationery:
Communication & Works Departmentprovided the controlledCommunication & Works DepartmentRs.500 at a timeProvincial Stationer office Lahore and or Superintendent Manager of the Regional Government	press	has
certified that stationery in question con not be supplied from the government storesChief EngineerRs.500 at a timeOfficers in Category IRs.200 at a timeOfficers in Category IIRs.50 at a time

[APPENDICES]	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE [CHAP. II
(ii) Addition to or repairs of instruments and furniture:-
   Communications and Works Department	Full powers.
Chief Engineer. .
Officers in Category I.
Officers in Category II.
Officers in Category III.
(iii) Hire charges of furniture‘s
Communications and Works Department Chief Engineer.
Officers in Category I
Officers in Category II
Officers in Category III.
      Hiring of furniture should be avoided. The delegations are meant to cover the period till furniture is purchased.
      (iv) Expenditure on carnage of records—Communications and Works Department, Chief Engineer and all officers shown In Appendix “B” will have fall powers.
      (v) Expenditure on rents of non residential buildings subject to certifies by the Executive Engineer concerned that the rent is reasonable:- Communications and Works Department ..	Full powers
Chief Engineer.	Full powers
Officers in Category I	Rs 1,000 per annum In each case.
Officers in Category ll	Rs. 500 per annum in each case.
      (vi) Appointment of Class IV establishment chargeable to contingencies subject to the condition that the pay of the establishment does not exceed pay Sanctioned for compamble regular establishment Communications and Works Department, Chief Engineer and Officers shown in Appendix “B” will have full powers.
      (vii) Freight charges for movement of Government belongings- Communications and Works Department Chief Engineer and officer shown in Appendix “B” will have full powers.
      (viii) Electricity and water charges and taxes-Communications and Works Department. Chief Engineer and officers shown in Appendix “B” will have full powers.
      (ix) Posts and Telegraphic charges other than those for installation of residential telephones-Communications and Works Department, Chief Engineer and officers shown In Appendix “B‘ will have full powers.
      Office telephones may not be sanctioned by officers below Category I Residential telephones may not. Be sanctioned without reference to Finance Department.


(a) Service postage:-
Communications and Works Department - Chief Engineer.
Officers in Category I
Officers in Category ll 	
Officers in Category III	
(xi) Hot and cold weather charges-Full powers subject to the full rules existing in various Regions.
(xii) Purchase of liveries, typewriter and bicycle—As per rules In various
(xiii) Charges for printing at presses other than Government Press Communications and
Works Department        Re. 200 in each case.Chief Engineer	
Officers In Category I	
Officers in Category II	        Ra 100 in each case.
        Ra. 50 In each case.
        Rs. 25 In each case.
       Reasons should be recorded why the job could not be done at Government, Press
      (xiv) Copying and translation charges -Full powers to Communications and Works Department. Chief Engineer and all Officers in Categories I and II, subject to rates sanctioned from time to time.
      (xv) Charges for remittances of pay or allowances of establishment by manes. order— Full powers to Communications and Works Department and all officers.
B-REWARDS AN]) BONUS
      Till Government policy regarding grant of rewards and bonus is determined afresh, the poll y that was being followed in this respect in the various areas prior to the appointed day, should be continued.
      Where the Budget provision exists and granting of rewards I. permissible under the Rules pertaining to the area in question the various authorities will have the powers to sanction rewards as Indicated below
      In Individual cases-
      Communications and Works	Department	Rs. 1,000
       Chief Engineer		Rs.500
      Official Category l ..	Rs 250
C-LAW CHARGES
      Detailed rules were laid down by the Government and Administrations of the Integrating unite regarding Incurring of expenditure on minal cases and civil suite, undertaking defense of cases against Government or incurred by Government servants and reimbursement of expenditure, incurred by Government servants on defending themselves when they are exonerated. ‘The Communications and Works Department will have full powers to Incur expenditure in respect of law charges In accordance with the rules laid down. Other Officers will have the powers to sanction law charges covered by the rules to the extent indicated below:-
Up to Re. 2,000 in each case.
Up to Re. 1,000 in each case

[APPENDICES)	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT	CODE-II
Any cases not covered by the Rules should invariably be referred to the Finance Department.
D-CEREMONIAL FUNCTIONS AND STATE ESTABLISHMENT
Subject to the existence of specific budget provision or allocation of funds, Communications and Works Department and Chief Engineer may incur such expenditure on ceremonial functions to the extent indicated below:-
      Communications & Works Department .. Rs. 1,000 in each case. -
      Chief Engineer..	Rs. 500 in each case
Subject to the existence of budget provision or allocation of funds Chief Secretary will have the powers to sanction expenditure on State entertainment not exceeding Rs. 1.000 in each case. E-PAYMENT OF FEES, HONORARIA AND COMPENSATIONS.
      The rites at which fee sate to be paid to Law officers and private pleader. Engaged for Government work has been laid down for various areas.
      The Communications and Works Department, Chief Engineer and officers included in Category I will have full powers to pay the fees in accordance with the rates own, provided that the total expenditure Incurred in cured on a case is within their powers of sanction. Th. Law Department or the Communications and Works Department in consultation with the law Department may sanction fees up to 20 per cent above the fixed rates in particularly important cases.
      In cases other than those pertaining to law Officers and private Pleaders, the Communications and Works Department and other Officers are empowered to sanction payment of fees to the extent indicated below :-
Honoraria and fees to personnel in connection ‘with departmental examinations in accordance
with a scale laid down by Government Communications and Works Department .. Chief Engineer
Officers in Category I ..
officers in II..
Fees In other oases
Communications and Works Department.. Chief Engineer.. Be. 100 In each case Officers in Category I	
      In case of compensations payable to any individual under the Law or Rules, the Communications and Works Department will have full powers to sanction payment of compensation in consultation with the law Department wherever necessary. Other officers will have the following powers Chief Engineer. -. ..
Officers in Category I .. .
Officers in Category ll 	

APPENDIX A
      in case of compensations payable to any individual under the law or Rules, the Communications and Works Department will have full powers to sanction payment of compensation in consultation with the Law Department wherever necessary. Other officers will have the following powers:-
Chief Engineer	,
Officers in Category I 	
Officers in Category II 	
F-PAYMENT OF SCHOLARSHIPS
      Scholarships will continue to be paid in accordance with the existing Rules applicable to the various areas, subject to budget provision, the number of scholarships will be determined by the Communications and Works Department. The^ payment of scholarships to individual scholars will be authorized by the Chief Engineer within the number sanctioned by the Communications and Works Department.
G-GRANTS-IN-AID
      Subject to the budget provisions, the Communications and Works Department will have full powers in accordance with the Rules. All cases not covered by the Rules may be referred to the Finance Department.
H-OTHER ITEMS
(i) Non-recurring items-
Communications and Works Department.
Chief Engineer..
Officer in Category I 	
Officers in Category II .. .
Officers in Category III -
(ii) Recurring items—
Communications and Works Department
Chief Engineer ..
Officer in Category I 	
Officers in Category II..
Officers Category llI ..
Expenditure under —Other items”, - may. be incurred only on objects, which are necessary for the technical working of the Department and are within the allotment sanctioned by competent authority. No expenditure, which is novel or doubtful in character, may be incurred from contingencies except with the prior sanction of Government.
III—POWERS IN RESPECT OF WORKS, STOCKS, TOOLS AND PLANTS
A-Powers	of	Administrative	Approval
      The Communications and Works Department and various officers will have the powers to grant administrative approval to construction of buildings to the extent indicated below

APPENDICES]	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT	CODE -II
 Communications and Works department.      Rs.1 Lakh Chief Engineers      Rs.20,000 Additional Chief Engineer/Deputy      Rs. 5,000. Chief Engineers.
      The Communications and Works Department Chief Engineer and the Additional Chief Engineer/Deputy Chief Engineers, Buildings and Roads Branch will have the following powers in respect of according administrative approval to original works of roads :—
 Communications and Works Department	Rs. 5 lakhs.
 Chief Engineer	Rs. 2 lakhs
 Additional Chief Engineers	Rs. 1 lakh.
B—Powers or Technical Sanction
The powers of technical sanction of the Communication & Works Department chief Engineer the Additional Chief Engineers will be as under:-
 In case or original Works-
Communication & Works DepartmentWorks up to Its. 500 lacs provided the excess over the amount for which the work has been administratively approved does not exceed 10 per cent of Rs. 20.000 whichever is more and full powers if the excess does not exceed 5 per centChief EngineerWorks	up	to	Es.	100	lace	pro:
vided the excess over the amount for which administrative approval has been accord eddoes not exceed 10 per cent or Re. 10,000 whichever is more and fail powers in came the excess does not exceed	5	per cent.Additional Chief EngineersWorks up to .Rs.25 lacs pro’ vided the excess over	the	amount	for	which	‘the
-work has been administratively approved does not exceed 5 per cent or Es. 5,000 which ever is	more.Superintending EngineersRs. one lakh subject to the con’ edition - that the excess over the amount for which the work has been administrative approval does not exceed 5 per cent.
APPENDIX A
Rs. 25,000 subject to the condition that the excess over the amount for which the work has been administratively approved does not exceed 5 per cent.
C—Accounts of Tenders
Power regarding acceptance of tenders are indicated below:-
Communications and Works Department..	Full powers.
Chief Engineer ..	Full powers.
Additional Chief Engineer..	Full Powers.
Superintending Engineers:	Full powers.
Executive Engineers..	Rs.50,000.
      Provided that the estimate	is	technically sanctioned and tendered perinea are same or less
than	that	provided	in	estimate.
      The above powers are subject to the condition that normal procedure laid down for invitation of tenders is followed and the rates quoted are such that total cost of the project will not exceed the amounts for which the works are administratively approved by more limit, laid down in the preceding paragraph. Further where competitive tenders are to be invited under the rules in case the lowest tender from an approved contractor is not accepted, the case should be submitted to the Communications and Works Department if the value of the tender is more than one lakh and should also be shown to the Finance Department if the value of the tender exceeds Rs, 5 lakhs. The above powers are also subject to the condition that the amount of any tender does	not	exceed	the	estimate	by	5	per	cent.
D-WORK-CHARGED ESTABLISHMENT
      The Communication and Works Department will have full powers regarding the appointment of work-charged establishment. The Chief Engineer, Additional Chief. Engineers, Superintending Engineers and Executive Engineers will have the powers to appoint work- charged establishment on salaries up to Rs. 750, Rs. 500, Re. 250 and Re. 100 per mensem, respectively. This power is subject to the existence of the provision in the sanctioned estimates and should be exercised only when the orders to comedic the work has been received. The pay allowed to this work-charged reestablishment should not exceed that allowed to regular establishment	of	the	same	category.
E-Stokes
      The Communications and Works Department, Chief Engineer and Additional Chief Engineer will have the powers to sanction fixation of stoke limits of various Divisions to the maximum extent indicated below:-
Communications and Works Department Chief Engineer- ..
Additional Chief Engineer -Full powers. Rs. 10 lakes. Rs. 5 lakes
[APPENDICES]	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE Chap. II
They will also have powers to decrease any stock limits both temporarily and permanently. - F—Toots AND PLANT PURCHASE OF
      The powers in respect of sanctioning Tools and Plant will be asunder:
      Communications and Works Department.. Rs.	2 lakhs.
       Chief Engineer		Rs.	1 lath.
      Additional Chief Engineer		Rs.	50,000.
       Superintending Engineers		Rs	2,000.
       Executive Engineers 		Rs.	5,00.
       Special
      Communications and Works Department .. Rs. 4 lakhs
       Chief Engineer	Rs 2 lakhs. :
       Additional Chief Engineers ..	Rs. 1 lakhs.
Subject to the budget provision.
IV-POWERS OF RE-APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS
A POWERS OF COMMUNICATION WORKS DEPARTMENT AND HIGH COMMISSIONERS FOR PAKISTAN
      The procedure in respect of re-appropriation will be regulated in accordance with ‘the provisions of the Punjab Budget Manual. However, subject to conditions laid down in paragraph 14.4 and 14.5 and 14.7(i) of the Budget Manual, the Communications and Works Department will have the powers to re-appropriate funds within a grant between two minor heads or subordinate item under the same major head in respect of both Voted and Charged - at Expenditure. The High Commissioner for Pakistan will have the same powers in respect of —Charges in England.
B—POWERS OF CHIEF ENGINEER
      The Chief Engineer will have the powers to re-appropriate funds between two Units of appropriation under the same minor head subject to the conditions mentioned in the above paragraph	and	subject	to	the	further	restriction	that
   (i)	Saving from “Pay of Officers” will not be re-appropriated- to other classes of
expenditure	;	and	-
   (ii)	Re-appropriations shall not be made to increase a contract grant or a provision for
Travelling	Allowance;
 Provided that the lump sum provision made for meeting un-expected charges under —Pay of Officers” and —Establishment” may be re-appropriated by the Chief Engineer between two or more minor heads. under the same major head.
A—HOUSE AND OTHER GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS AND LAND APPURTENANT to them
(i) Power to dismantle and sell unserviceable buildings
Communications and Works Department -‘ Up to Rs.1 Lakh

Chief Engineer
Additional Chief Engineers
ii) leases of land pertaining to Government building:-..
Communications and Works Deptt:
Chief Engineer
Additional Chief Engineer
iii) leases of surplus buildings :-
Communications and Works Deptt:
Chief Engineer
Additional Chief Engineer (iv)leases of fruit threes and sale of grass growing on government land:-
Communications and Works Deptt Chief	Full powers
Engineers and Additional Chief
Engineer for a period of not more than one year and by open auction.
B—DISPOSAL SURPLUS STORIES
Power to declare stores surplus or unserviceable:-
Communications & Works Department	..	Rs. I Lakh.
Chief Engineer	Rs ,5000
Additional Chief Engineer	Rs.25,000
Power to sell surplus or unserviceable stores and stock at book value or market value whichever is grater or by auction:-
Communications and Works	Department.,	Full powers
Chief Engineer‘s	Full powers
Chief Engineer and Additional	Up to Rs. 1 Lakh
Officer in category II	Up to Rs. 25,000
Note -Amounts indicated above refer to under recited book value
IV-Refers, remissions and suspension of revenue and write offs
Communication & Works Department chief Engineer and Additional Chief Engineers will have full powers to make any refunds of deposit which are clearly due in accordance with the rules the following powers are delegated in respect of refunds ordered by court in respect of which no appeal is proposed to be filed:-
Communications and Works Department., Chief Engineer
Chief Engineer and Additional

PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE CHAP. II
      Further, Communications and Works Department will have powers to refund revenues otherwise than as per rules laid down but not in relaxation of any rules to the extent of Rs. 2,000 in each case.
B—.SUSPENSION OF COLLECTION OF GOVERNMENT DUES
      Communications and Works Department Chief Engineer and Additional Chief Engineer /Deputy Chief Engineers and other officers may write off losses to the extent indicated below
   (i) Losses on account of negligence and fraud
Communications and Works department
Chief Engineer
   (ii) Losses otherwise than on account of negligence and fraud
Communications and Works department	Full powers
Chief engineer	Rs.5,000
Additional Chief Engineers /Deputy Chief Engineers	Rs.5,00
      VII— LOANS)	ADVANCES	TO	GOVERNMENT	SERVANTS
      Advances for construction of a house; purchase of a house or purchase of motor cars or motor-boats or other conveyance or for purchase of type- writers may be made in accordance with the rules by Communications and Works Department and Chief Engineer and Additional Engineer/Deputy Chief Engineers. This is subject to the availability of funds being certified ‘by he Audit Officer .concerned. Additional Chief Engineer/Deputy Chief Engineer may also subject to availability of funds, sanction advances for purchase motorcycle, cycle ponies and typewriters.
APPENDIX ‘B
CATEGORY I
Additional Chief Engineers.
Deputy Chief Engineers.
Principal, Government College of Engineering and Technology, Lahore.
Principal, N. E. P. Engineering College, Karachi.
                  CATEGORY II Superintending Engineers.
CATEGORIES III
Executive Engineers.
Principal, Engineering Schools, Rasa.
      All other Disbursing and Estimating Officers of the Buildings and Roads Department other than the Chief Engineer and the officer indicated in Categories I and Il above.
ANNEXURE ‘C’
PART-I
(Refereed to in rule 2.81 of buildings and roads Department code)
Rules for the payment of compensation for land taken up under the Land A
acquisition Act, 1 of 1894, as adapted for Pakistan -
Note -The term act as used in this Appendix, mesas Land Acquisition
Act, 3, of 1894, as adopted for Pakistan)
Land Acquisition Officers.—
      1. After all preliminaries in respect to estimates, etc., that may be required under departmental rules in force for the time being have been duly carried out, the land will be taken up under the Act either by the Collected or by some special officer who is placed at the disposal of the Buildings and Roads Department, and invested with the powers of the Collector under the Act.
      Procedure of Special Officer appointed under the Act.—
      2. The procedure for the drawl of money from treasuries by special officers is prescribed in Subsidiary ‘Treasury Rule 4.64 and for the disbursement of money in the following rules
      3. When an award is made under section II of the Act, the office shall have a statement prepared in the appended Form A showing the amount payable to each person under the award, and shall, on the day the award is made, forward a copy of the statement, signed by himself, to the Accountant General. Before signing the copy, the officer should carefully satisfy himself that it correctly shows the amounts due under the award and should him self enter the total of column 6 of the statement in words both in the original and copy. A subsidiary statement in Form AA giving particulars regarding the acceptance, by the persons concerned, of the amounts entered in column 6- of the award statement should also be furnished to the Director Audit and Accounts (Works), that the a ward is made, the necessary entries in column 7 of statement A will be made In the Director‘s office on receipt of the statement in Form AA.
      4. In cases where an award has been made by a Court under section 26 of the Act, a second award statement should be prepared in the accompanying Form B by the Land Acquisition Officer as soon as the decision of the Court is ascertained and a copy thereof forwarded to the Director Audit and Accounts (Works). On receipt of this statement, the Director Audit and Accounts (Works) will proceed to check the entries in columns 1 to 4 with the original award	by	the	officer.
Note—Unless there be something repugnant in the subject or context the rule-given in this appendix for the acquisition of lend for the Buildings and Roads Department apply mutes mutatis	mutandis	to	other	departments	of	Government	also.
      5. Any change In the apportionment of the officers award made by a Court under section 30 of the Act, should also similarly be communicated to the Director Audit and Accounts (Works) for necessary corrections in the award statement. And if under section 31 (3) of the Act, it has been arranged to grant a compensation otherwise than in each, the nature of such compensation should be clearly specified in the column of remarks in the award statement.
ANNEXURE PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[CHAP. II
6. In giving notice of the award under section 12 (2) and tendering payment under section 31 (1) to such of the persons interested as were not present personally or by their representatives when the award was made, the officer shall require them to appear personally or by representatives, by a certain date, to receive payment of the ‘compensation awarded to them, intimating also that no interest will be allowed to them if they fail to appear. If they do not appear and do not apply for a reference to the Civil court under section 18, the officer shall, after any further Endeavour to secure their attendance that may seem desirable, cause the amounts due to be paid in the treasury as revenue deposits payable to the persons to whom they are respectively due, and vouched for in the accompanying Form E. The Officer shall also give notice to the payees of such deposits, specifying the treasury in which the deposits have been made. In the Collection‘s accounts the amounts deposited in the treasury will at once be charged off‘ as public works expenditure and when the persons interested under the award ultimately claim payment, the amounts will be paid to them in the same manner as ordinary revenue deposits. The officer should, as far as possible, arrange to make the payments due in or near the village to which the payees belong, in order that the number of undisbursed sums to be placed in deposit on account of non-attendance may be reduced to a minimum. Whenever payment is claimed through a representative, whether before or after deposit of the amount awarded, such representative must show legal authority for receiving the compensation on behalf of his principal.
      Note —In the case of petty payments if the payers do not appear on the day fixed for payment and do not apply for a reference to the Civil Court under section 18, the office shall issue notice to them informing them that if they do not attend by a certain data, the compensation awarded them-will be remitted by money order, the amount of the money order fee being deducted. The following rules must be observed in making payment by money order-
(i) No sums exceeding Re. 50 in each separate case may be paid by money order.
(ii) No compensation due on account of lend which is owned jointly by the proprietors of a village or sub-Division of a village may be paid by money order.
(iii) in each money order so issued, the purpose of the remittance should be briefly stated in the acknowledgment portion thereof in continuation of the printed entry —Received the sum specified above on —sufficient space being left below the manuscript entry thus made for the signature or thumb-impression of the payee. -
On receipt of the money order acknowledgment duly signed by the payee. it should be attached to the usual receipt in Form C (See Rule 7) In which the full amount of the compensation and the deduction made there from on account of the money order fee should be clearly shown: the receipt will then be disposed of in the usual way. - - (iv) For the word, —paid in my presence by cash” in form C, the words —paid by-cheque”
by money order” shall be substituted.
The Director Audit and Accounts (Works) will accept, in the case of compensation paid by money order, a receipt for the amount entered in the award statement less the amount of the money order fee as a valid receipt f or the full amount entered in the award statement.
      7. in making direct payment-s to the persons interested under the award the officer shall take the receipt of each person to whom money is paid on


      Separate voucher in the accompanying Form C, containing a reference to the item showing the amount due to that person in the award statement. In case where payments are made to a number of persons under a single award, acquaintance roll in Form C C may be substituted for separate receipts in Form C. The office shall forward the separate receipts of the^ payees or the acquaintance roll, as the case may be, to the Director Audit and Accounts (Work when forwarding to him the account of the month in which the payments are made.
8. . All payments into court for deposit under the Act should be made by means of cheque in
favour of the presiding officer of the court, payable by order of the court to credit of civil court deposits.
      The cheques should be accompanied with receipts, in triplicate, in Form D, duly filled up, of which one will be retained by the Court for record and the other two returned duly signed to the collector, who will keep one copy and forward the other to the Director Audit and Accounts (Works) with the accounts of the month In which the payments sire made. The amounts deposited in the court will be charged off expenditure in the public works accounts of the collector and the ultimate payments to the persons interest under the a ward shall be arranged for the court under the rules for the payment of civil court as payments are made .The amount deposited in the court will be charge of as expenditure in the public works accounts of the collector and the ultimate payments to the persons interested under the a ward shall be arranged for by the court under the rules for the payment of civil court deposits.
9. . When a Court has awarded any compensation in excess of the officers award the further
payment due, as entered in Colum 6 of the award statement in from B should be made into the court by means of cheque and the procedure descried in the preceding paragraph should be followed From D being used with the necessary changes to give full particulars of the orders of the Court.
10. For payments to the persons interested by cheques instead of by cash. See note below subsidiary treasury Rule 4.64.
      Payment under the Act after the special officer is relieved of his special duties. 11. in any case in which a reference is made to the civil court and the award of the court is not made till after the special officer has bed relived of his special duties, the further payments due under the award shall be made by the Collector, who will observe the same procedure as If the reference to the Civil court had been made by himself, as prescribed in rules 8 and 9 above.
      Procedure of Collector or other Civil Officer not specially employed for land acquisitions.
12. When the land is taken up by the Collector or other Civil Officer not specially employed for the work such collector or Civil officer Is not Public Works disburser, but draws money for payment due under his award from the Tnasury -vide subsidiary Treasury Rule 4.65 et seq. Such Collector or Civil officer shall, as soon as he makes the award, or as soon as he ascertains that an award has been made by the civil Court prepare and statement in Form A or B or in both, as the case may be, showing the amounts due and forward a copy thereof to the Director Audit and Accounts (Works) In the manner prescribed in the_rules 3 and 4. Additions and alternations in the award statement in the should also be communicated to the Director Audit and Accounts (Works) as prescribed In rule 5, and a subsidiary statement In Form AA
[ANNEXURE]	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[Chap-II)
Should, if necessary, be furnished as laid down in rule 3. The procedure laid down in rule 5 should be observed by such Collector or Civil Officers.
13. The rules regulating the drawal and disbursement of money by the Collector or other Civil Officer including the drawl of advances are contained in Subsidiary Treasury Rules 4.66 and 4.67.
Note- Advance should be drawn only in very exceptional circumstances to be noted in the voucher on which the advance is drawn, and the undisbursed portion of the advance should be placed in Revenue Deposit as soon as the date fixed for making payment is over.
14. The receipts in Form C taken from the persons to whom payments are made (vide Subsidiary Treasury Rule 4.66) shall be forwarded by the Treasury Officer with the accounts of the month to the Director Audit and Accounts (Works), For payments into Civil Courts the procedure laid in rules 8 and 9 should be observed.
15. Cost of Pleader‘s fee in civil suite arising out of acquisition proceeding should be charged to the same head as the cost of the acquisitions. Department for, which land is being acquired ought to meet the cost of Pleader‘s fees forming part of charges for civil suits arising our of land and debited to the department for which the land is acquired.
16. Any special charges incurred in connection with the acquisition of land on account of establishment and contingencies, etc., should be treated as an Integral part of the cost of the land and debited to the department for which the land is acquired.
      (b)	Where one department makes payment or renders service as an agent of another
department of the same Government, the principal department may, subject to such monetary limit as may be fixed by Government In this behalf, be charged with the expenditure Incurred on Its behalf by the agent department.
      Note I —The cost of land acquired by a civil department on behalf of the Buildings and Roads Department is debatable in the accounts of the latter as pert of the cost of the works for which the land is taken up; but when land is taken up for two or more service departments can jointly, the	coat is	wholly debatable	to the	department for which the major	portion of
expenditure	was	incurred, unless	there are special reasons to the contrary.
Note 2- when a special officer is employed for the acquisition of land for any department, the expenditure on pay, allowances, etc., of the special & officer arid his establishment and any expenditure on contingencies is debatable to that department as part of the cost of land. When the lend is taken up by a civil officer, not specially employed for the work, only special charges incurred In connection with the acquisition of the land on establishment, contingencies, etc., shall be borne by the department for which the land is a enquired .
(The Government have fixed Rs 50 as the monetary limit referred to in this direction AUDIT BY ACCOUNT OFFICERS
17. Whether the payment Is made by a special officer or by the Collector (or other Civil Officer) the audit of the Director Audit and Account (Work) shall Insist in seeing every payment Is supported by a receipt In Forms C, CC, 3) or E and that the amount paid on such receipt Is the amount payable under the award, as shown In the statement of which he will have received copies under the preceding orders. The Director Audit, and Account (works) will also not in the last column of Form a the date on which possession was taken as reported to him by the Executive Engineer or other officer .
18. The Director Audit and Account (Works) will, as he receives the vouchers, fill in the vouchers fill in the entries in the appropriate columns of the award state.
Chap. II	ANNEXURE
merits (forms A and B); and as he receives the reports of possession he will film the entries in column 10 of the statement in Form A: when all the vouchers showing either payment to the payee or payment into the Court as deposit and reports of possession have been received, he will forward the completed statements in Forms A, AA and 8 to the Chief Revenue Authority. This will complete the audit of the Director Audit and Account (Works); any other or further returns or reports from the officers who assess or pay compensation will be disposed of by the Chief Revenue Authority without reference to the Director Audit and Account (Works).
19. When the land is acquired for and the cost is debatable, to, any other Department than the Public Works Departments, the procedure will also be the same. Investment	of	Compensation	money	deposited	in	Court.
21. Investments under section 32 and 33 of the Act of money deposited in Court, should he arranged for, in the case of purchase of Government securities, in communication between the Court and the State Bank of Pakistan and purchase of land should be effected under the Court‘s orders through the Collector or other Revenue Authority. The Bank will inform the Court what sum should be remitted to enable it to make the investment, and this amount will be paid from the	deposits	in	Court.
Audit, adjustment and recovery of payments on behalf of bodies financially Independent	of	Government.
22. Payments made from a municipal fund or district fund or a small town or notified area fund	as	compensation	for	land	taken	up	under	the	Act,
• shall be made and audited by the Local Audit Department, in the same manner as if the land were being acquired for Government. The Collector or other officer who makes payments on account of the lend acquired shall draw funds from the Treasury and make payments in the manner laid down in these rules, using the forms prescribed in duplicate. one copy of the relevant record shall be sent to the Local Body concerned and the other copy to the Director Audit and Accounts (Works), West Pakistan. The municipality or other body will pay the estimated cost of the compensation to the credit of Government in advance on such dates and in such installments as the Government may direct, further payment to Government being required as soon as the Director Audit and Accounts (Works) reports that the payment made exceed the amount received in advance. The Director Audit and Accounts (Works) will deal with the accounts and payments as prescribed in these rules, debiting the payments against the advances received from the Municipality or other body.
      *These sums should be credited in the treasury accounts to a special deposit head under Civil Deposits.—‘Deposits for work done for public bodies or individuals.” All charges should be supported by the prescribed vouchers, unless these cannot be furnished at once in which case the Director, Audit and Accounts (Works) will place them under objection, tin the necessary vouchers have been obtained. If the awarding officer should at any time have in hand any sum in excess of his immediate requirements, he should repay it in to the Treasury for credit of the special deposit head; any balance of the sum originally credited which is not claimed at the expiration of a year from the date of the award will be paid into a civil court by the officer accordance with rule 8.

ANNEXURE) PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE CHAP-II
No and date of statement 	
Date of Award	
Name of work for which land has been acquired 	
No. and date of declaration in 		Gazette, Viz, No	dated 	page___
Statement showing compensation awarded by 		under section ___act 1 of 1994 as adapted for Pakistan to all the persons
interested in the plot of land situated in the village of ___ in estate __ no. the revenue roll of the District
    1    2    3    4    5    678    9   10Serial noNames of persons to whom payment is due under the awardArea of landAbatement of land revenueEvaluation of any buildings that may be taken upon the landTotal amount due to each person including the amount shown in column 5 the amount warded for the land interest costs and any other amounts due to the payee in connection with the acquisition of the landDistribution of the amount in column 5 taken from the subsidiary stamen AARemarksNumber and date of voucherDate on which passion of the land was handed over to the Department all authorities for whom it is acquiredAcresRs.A.PRs.A.PRs.A.P
*To be filled up in the accountant general‘s office
       Notes-( 1) each award statement should be confined to the lands to be taken under one declaration i.e the award given for lands acquired under more than one declaration should not be incorporated in one statement but as many separate submitted as there are declarations
       Note -(2) - Regarding column 7 see note to statement A.A
ANNEXURE)
A
Particulars regarding the acceptance by the persons concerned of amounts entered in Award Statement No.	
Dated 	
Nome of work for which land has been acquired 	
No. and date of declaration in 		Gazetted, Viz, no	dated	page	
123Serial No. in the statement of ward under section II of the ActName of person to	whom
payment is made under the awardPARTICULARS OF AMOUNT ENTERED IN COLUMNS 6 OF THE AWARD STATEMENTabcdAmount accepted without protestAmount accepted under protestAmount refused and the Court in which is depositedAmount undisbursed to non attendance and the treasury in which it is depositedRs,A.PRs.A.PRs.A.PRs.A.P*Note -In noting these particulars in the Award Statement it may be sufficient to enter the letter a,b,c,d in this statements
ANNEXURE)
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE
B
Number and date of statement 	
Name of work for which land has been acquired 	
Number and date of declaration in 		Gazette viz No. 	dated 	page	
STATEMENT SHOWING THE AMOUNT OF COMPENSATION AWARD BY THE COURT
OF 	UNDER SECTION 26 OF ACT 1 OF 1994 AS ADAPTED FOR PAKISTAN
   1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8Serial No. in the statement of ward under section II of the ActName	of
sons	to
whom payment	is
due under	theAmount originally awardedAmount made by Collector under the original awardTotal amount awarded by the CourtFurther payments dueRemarksNumber and date of voucherRS. A.PRS. A.PRS. A.PRS. A.PRS. A.PRS. A.P
*Note -In noting these particulars in the Award Statement it may be sufficient to enter the letter a,b,c,d in this statements
ANNEXURE)
       C	C
No. of vouchers 	
Name of work which the land has been acquired	
No, and date of declaration in	Gazette Viz ,No	
Dated	
Serial No.	in awarded statement no.
	date	
Name of payee
I	ofNo. of vouchers 	
Name of work which the land has been acquired	
No, and date of declaration in	Gazette Viz ,No	
Dated	
Serial No.	in awarded statement no.
	date	
Name of payee
I	ofTehsil	DistrictTehsil	DistrictDo hereby acknowledged to have received Rs.	
	on account of cost of land taken up by Government as detailed on reverse .
        Signature of payee	
        Locality
Note -The receipt should be in Urdu or in English but when the payee is unable to write in English or in Urdu he may give a receipt any other vernacularDo hereby acknowledged to have received Rs.	
	on account of cost of land taken up by Government as detailed on reverse .
        Signature of payee	
        Locality
Note -The receipt should be in Urdu or in English but when the payee is unable to write in English or in Urdu he may give a receipt any other vernacular
ANNEXURE--C)
CONSOLIDATED VOUCHER FOR PAYMENT MADE DURING 	19 IN ACCORDANCE WITH AWARD
    STATEMENT NO	 DATED 	 ON ACCOUNT OF LAND ACQUIRED FOR ___ IN THE DISTRACT OF ___
TEHSIL ___ MAUZA	
12345Serial No. in Award statementName of payeeArea of landAmount paidSignature of the payee and date of paymentTotalRs.A.PPaid in my presence in cash to the above persons the total sum of rupees 		*annas*	pies *	 only by cheque

Dated the 	19	in words	Signature of officer
PART-	II
TRANSFER OF	LANDS	BETWEEN THE CENTRAL AND
PROVINCIAL	GOVERNMENTS
(i)	STATUTORY	PROVISIONS
            Sections 127 and 176 of the Government of India Act, 1935, as adapted and modified for Pakistan , regulate the transfers of lands between the Central and Provincial Government.	These	are	reproduced	below	for	facility
of	reference:—	-
            127. The Federation may, if it deems it necessary to acquire any land Acquisition of land for situated in a Province for any purpose connected, Federal purposes. with a matter With respect to which the Federal Legislature has power to make laws, require the Province to acquire this land on behalf, and at the expense of the Federation or, if the land belonge to the Province, to transfer it to the Federation on such terms as may be agreed or, in default of agreement, as may be determined by an arbitrator appointed by the Chief Justice	of	Pakistan.
      175. (1) The executive authority of the Federation and of a Pro Power to acquire property Vince	shall	extend,	subject	to	any	act	of
and to make contracts, etc. appropriate Legislature, to the grant sale, disposition or mortgage of any	property	vested
in President for the purposes of the Government for the Federation or of the Province, as the case may be , and to the purchase or acquisition of property on behalf of President for these purposes respectively,	and	to	the	making	of	contracts	.
(2) All property acquired for the purposes of the Federation of a Province, as the case may be, shall	vest	in	President	for	those	purposes.
(3) All contracts made in the exercise of the executive authority of the Federation or of a Province shall be expressed to be made by the President or by the Governor of the Province, as the case may be, and all such contracts and all assurances of property made in the exercise of that authority shall be executed on behalf of the President of Governor by such persons and in such manner	as	he	may	direct	or	authorize.
      (4) Neither the President, nor the Governor of a Province, nor the Secretary of State, shall be personally liable in respect of any contract or assurance made or executed for the purpose of this Act, or for the purposes of the Government of India Act, or of any Act, repealed thereby, nor shall any person making or executing any such contract or assurance on behalf of any of them be personally	liable	in	respect	thereof.
(II)	SUBSIDIARY	PROVISIONS
      The Central Government have decided to apply the following principles in regard to certain subsidiary points, not covered by the statutory provisions:-
      (1) Acquisition of land for Federal purposes Section 127 of the Government of India Act, 1935 as adapted and modified for Pakistan, provide that when land belonging to a private party is required to be acquired on behalf of the Federation, the acquisition shall be at the expense of the Federation. In cases where the 1‘ and required to be transferred is in the occupation of the
ANNEXURES)	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE CHAP-II
Provincial Government, the amount payable by the Central Government will ordinarily be the market value of the land and buildings, if any, thereon; the capitalized value of the land revenue assessable thereon will be included m cases where the transfer of the land causes actual loss of land revenue to the Provincial Governments.
            (2) Continuance of first refusal to Provincial Governments of land that is surplus to the requirements bf the Central Government. When the Central Government no longer require land in their possession, the provincial Government of the province iii which it is situate will be given the option of assuming possession of the whole or any portion thereof, subject to the following conditions:—
(a) the Central Government themselves will be the judges of whether they require to retain any particular land or not;
(b) if the provincial Government desire to assume possession of the lands,
the option to do so should be exercised within six months of the date on which the Central Government signify	their intention of surrendering the land;
(c) the amount payable for the land will in all cases be the market value
of the land and building, if any, thereon, at the date of transfer; and
(d) when the Provincial Government desire to assume possession
of a only a portion of the land surrendered, they shall be entitled to do so only if the value of the land is not materially reduced by the division.
        (111) TRANSFERS AND LEASES AND MILITARY LANDS BY THE CENTRAL
GOVERNMENT TO PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENTS.
(a) For lands inside cantonments—The procedure will be as that prescribed in the cantonment Land Administration Rules for private individuals except that the leases will not be put upto auction, but will be granted by private treaty. In other words the Provincial Government requiring the land or some one on their behalf will apply for the lease of the land in the usual manner on the prescribed form to the cantonment Board or the Military Estates Officer concerned who will dispose of the application; in accordance with the rules in the manner referred to above. The lease will be executed on behalf of the Provincial Government by the proper authority, i.e. an authority duly authorized to do so.
(b) For lands outside cantonments—The procedure at (a) above, with necessary changes,
will be followed, a lease form prescribed in the cantonment Land Administration Rules being adapted for the purpose. If, however, the land out side a cantonment applied for by the Provincial Government ‘a not required for any prospective Military purpose, it should be permanently relinquished outright in the usual manner instead of being leased. -
(2) Provincial Government, are entitled to have alienations of land in their favour registered under the Registration Act (XVI) of 1908 as adapted.
     [CHAP. II)	ANNEXURE -C
For Pakistan. The Central Government prefer that all leases should be registered as a matter of principle even if registration is not compulsory under that Act as such a course appears to be in the interests of both the parties.
       (3) It has also been decided that a transfer of land from the Central Government to a Provincial Government should be carried out in the usual way, that is to say, by means of a conveyance in writing from the President of Pakistan to the Governor of the province concerned.. This procedure will apply to permanent transfers or relinquishments o land except statutory ones, i.e. except those transfers which are affected by some statutory provision and for which no conveyance	or	other	document	is	necessary.
      These instructions relate to lands in charge of the Defiance Department only and do not affect those belonging to other Departments of the Central Government.
Annexure “D”
( Prefer to paragraph 2.102 (3) of this Code)
Rule 19.9 of P.F.R Volume-I)
Serial
NaNature of powerDepartmentExtent to which assent is given    1234    1.To sanction expenditure form the lump sum provision under the head 50 civil works grants in aid for grants in aid to local bodies for grants in aid to local bodies for barges and metalled roads and for colony roadPublic works buildings and roads branchProvided that-
(I ) the expenditure is sanctioned for an object for which the lump sum grant is intended.
     (ii)	The amount of sanction
dose not exceed Rs.5.000 in each case    2To sanction expenditure from the lump sum prevision under the head 50 civil works grants in aid for grants in aid to new municipalities and notified areas in the colonies for utilization on works other than those mentioned in serial no.1 aboveDittoProvided that-
i) the expenditure is on an object for which the lump sum grant is intended
ii) the amount of sanction does not exceed Rs.50,000 in each case

Annexure “D”
( Prefer to paragraph 2.102 (3) of this Code)
Rule 19.9 of P.F.R Volume-I)
Serial
NaNature of powerDepartmentExtent to which assent is given    1234    15.To sanction grants in aid for water supply schemes for a village or group of villages costing Rs. one lakh or less from the lump sum provision the budget for the purpose.      Sanitary boardSubject to the conditions-
     a) That the grant in aid shall only
be given for water supply scheme of a village, or group of villages where there is no drinking water or where the supply is scant or where the water available is not fit for human consumption
     b) That the grant in aid shall not
exceed Rs.50,000 or 50 per cent of the estimated cost of the scheme whichever is less and no recurring commitments shall be made.
     c) That no grant aid shall be
made except to a district board or panchayat which shall undertake is responsibility for the maintenance of the scheme for which a grant -in- aid made and
     d) That the amount of a grant in
aid shall in variably be stated as a definite sum and not as percentage of the cost    19To sanction grants to local bodies in aid of approved schemesCommunications board or its successor agencyProvided the grant in aid does not exceed one lakh in any one case
CHAPTER- III
PUBLIC BUILDINGS
      introductory Nets (i)—The Rules In this Chapter are generally applicable to buildings maintained by the Buildings and Roads Department but they should be applied mutatis mutanis to any other department maintaining buildings departmentally.
 (ii) The term public or Government Buildings, as used in this chapter applies to buildings borne on the books of the buildings and roads department and maintained form the appropriation of r buildings and roads works Incharge of the building and roads department officers .
A-GENERAL
I-GENERAL RULES
 31. The Officer Incharge of each building should make some person of his establishment answerable for its general condition.
32. As a theatre is peculiarly liable to fire, no Government building in which stores or other Government property is kept should be used for theatrical purposes.
33. Insurance of Government buildings is not to be effected except, at the discretion of Government, in the case of specially valuable property liable to, special risks.
II—FIXTURES AND FURNITURE.
(a) FIXTURES AND FURNITURE
3.4. Every public building should be provided with all necessary fixtures. The periodical repair of these fixtures should be carried out by the B. & U . Department and charged
• to the repair estimate of the building. (All petty repairs of fixtures together with the purchase and repair of furniture
k- not comprehended and provided for originally should be paid for by the Department concerned and be charged in the contingent bill.)
      Note—(l) Subject to auth exception as may be authorized under clause 4 of paragraph 5.8, punkha Includes its suspending ropes, tubes, pulleys, Its poles board flaps, frill‘s and pulling ropes, and Thong., which will be supplied and maintained by Government, flaps being renewable at intervals of not lees than three years.
      Non—(2) Only portable heaters and water beaten which obtain their electric energy by means of a moveable plug in a socket In the wiring system shall be classified as furniture, other electric heaters or water heaters which are fixed to walls, floors or coiling of Government buildings	shall	be	classified	as	fixtures.
(b) Furniture
            3.5. The Divisional Officer will no€ supply nor repair furniture, screens, purdahs , or tattles, nor will he perform any of the duties specified above as devolving on the departmental officer	Incharge.	Furniture,	for	new	offices	may,	how
     149
ever, be supplied by the Divisional Officer and, charged in his accounts, provided Government authorizes the inclusion of the cost of such furniture in the estimates of the offices concerned; The repairs of such furniture will however be paid for by the department concerned.
             This rule does net apply to the case of furniture for dak bungalows, civil rest houses or circuit houses, the outlay on the supply and repair of which will be treated as charges of the Civil Department. In the case of Buildings and Roads Department rest houses and inspection bungalows, the furniture should be supplied and repaired at the cost of Buildings and Roads	Department.
            3.6. The Administration of the furniture grants of the official residences of the Governor, West Pakistan, including the upkeep of a stock list and the purchase, repair and maintenance of furniture, shall be conducted by the Military Secretary, who would furnish the Director, Audit and Accounts (Works), West Pakistan, with an annual certificate of verification in the form given in paragraph 81 below. During the second and fourth year of the incumbency of the Governor and at least once in every three years the certificate of edification should be countersigned by a Divisional Officer of the Buildings and Roads Department, in token of his joint	responsibility	for	the	actual	verification.
      37. When a building is newly constructed for the use of the Governor and supply of furniture is deemed necessary the cost of furniture should be debited to works but the cost of maintenance and renewal of furniture in the staff quarters should be met from the grant for the main and repairs of furnishings of official residences of the Governor under Allowances and Privileges	(Governors),	Order,	1952.
     Form	of	Certificate	of	verification
      Certified that all furniture in 	(name of the house)
 has been inspected and checked with stock lists ‘ maintained.
      I am satisfied (:3 that all new supplies up-to-date have been correctly brought on the stock lists, (Ii) that the stock lists are corrected in all respects, (ii) that the articles in stock agree with the stock lists, (iv) that the sale-proceeds have been properly accounted for, and (v) that sanction of com
Patent authority exists for writing of all articles struck of the stock lists.
      The proceeds of the sale of unserviceable furniture shall be credited to provincial Revenues.
3.8:	The Buildings and Roads Department is responsible for the supply and
maintenance of furniture in the
following Government residential Buildings:—
Chief Ministers and Deputy Ministers‘ Residences at Lahore. Government Buildings at Fort Manro, Sakesar and Nathiagalli.
      None—only the buildings provided with furniture at present are covered under this rule.
(2) Chair and sofa covers are included in the furniture for the residences of the Ministers‘, but carpets and curtains are excluded.
Ill—PURCHASE AND SALE OF‘ GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS
3.9. No buildings may be purchased for public purposes without the orders of Government to whom ‘a survey and valuation report by the Divisional Officer should, in.
all cases, be submitted. ,See also paragraph 323.
310. Provincial buildings in charge of the Buildings and Roads Department may, be sold or dismantled ‘in‘ accordance ‘with the ‘powers delegated,—-ride paragraph V of Annexure ‘B‘ to Chapter II.
(2) (a) It is necessary that other departments of, Governments with local interest are
consulted in regard to any use, they may have before the sale or demolition takes place.
(b) Buildings may be sold by the Buildings and Roads Department but when a building and site is sold together the consultation of the. Deputy Commissioner of the District is necessary.
(c) When buildings are to be dismantled a demolition statement in the form given below should be prepared and sent for sanction of the competent authority‘ :
(1) Serial No.‘
(2) Name of building tad reference to Register of Buildings.
(3) Date of Completion.
(4 Plinth area.
[3. II] PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE [Chap. III
        Capital cost excluding site.
        Probable cost of demolition.
        Probable cost of the material to be obtained from
        dismantling.
        How it is proposed to dispose of the material.
        Reasons for demolition and whether the building can not be utilized for any
Government purpose.
      (d) As regards those buildings for which an estimate for their reconstruction is sanctioned, no demolition statement need be prepared. The sanctioning authority should satisfy himself that the proposal do not involve the premature or unnecessary dismantlement of buildings.
(3) Temporary buildings erected during the construction of work may under the sanction, previously obtained, of the Superintending Engineer, be sold or dismantled on the completion of the work or when the purpose for which they were erected has been served.
IV—HIRE OF OFFICE ACCOMMODATION
(4) 1. When no suitable Government building is available, private buildings may be hired for use as offices, the rent being charged to the contingencies of the office concerned. When the^ Building is entirely used for office accommodation, the rent is wholly chargeable -to Government, while, when it is partly used for office purposes and partly for residential or other purposes, the share of the rent payable by Government will be proportionate to the amount of the main buildings set aside solely for office use. The subletting for residential purposes of buildings hired as offices will require the approval of Government and consent of Finance Department, and any recovery of rent for portions sublet will be made by the Head of office concerned and credited to the Revenue Head of Ms Department. Before it is decided to hire a privately-owned building, it is necessary to obtain a non-accommodation certificate from the Division Officer concerned who should also be consulted about the reasonableness of the rental proposed except in cases where the rent is less than Rs. 40. Per mensem, and when -a portion is to be sublet, the Divisional Officer should be requested to assess the correct rent of the portion. The actual selection	of	the	accommodation,	however,	shall
     rest with the officer for whom it f required, subject to the
CHAP. III] PUNIC BUILDINGS— GENERAL [3. II]
      approval of competent authority, and the lease in connection with the hire will also be executed by the Department concerned. See also paragraph 3.24 (2).
(5) An officer permitting occupation of a Government or leased building by any private
person or local body should at once inform the authority in charge of the building of such occupation: The authority in charge will be the Divisional Officer concerned in the case of buildings in charge of the Buildings and Roads Department, and the Head of the Department concerned in the case of buildings rented as offices.
(6) Powers to sanction expenditure on rents of nonresidential buildings by the various
officers of the Buildings and Roads Department as given in paragraph IT-A of Annexure ‘B‘ to Chapter-TI of: this Code.
- (4) When Divisional Officers provide accommodation for their offices in the building (not being a Government Building) in which they reside, they may, under the orders of the Superintending Engineer be allowed to draw office rent up to Rs 30, a month chargeable in the monthly contingent bill. In special cases the office rent may, at the discretion of the Superintending Engineer be increased to a maximum of Rs. 40 a month; but in no case should it exceed half the rent of the whole house subject to the same maximum. Any departure from the above rules will need the consent of Government.
(5) When a Sub-Divisional Office is necessarily accornodated in the officer‘s residence (not being a Government Building), he may, under the sanction of the Superintending Engineer be allowed a fair proportion of the rent actually Raid for the house he occupied on account of the accommodation which he necessarily has to provide for the office up to & maximum of Rs. 20 per mensem, any higher rent being fixed by Government, subject to the following conditions:
      (i) In calculating the accommodation set apart for office purposes, no allowance should be made for a separate room, apart from the office, to be occupied by the Sub-Divisional Officer.
      (ii) The Divisional Officer must certify both as to the amount of necessary accommodation, and that it
      3.11
is actually available and suitable in the house in question.
(iii) He must also certify that no Government building is available and that no suitable separate building can be hired for the purpose at a less cost.
If the house is a Government building, the rent to be paid by the occupant should be calculated under	para	532	Annexure	to	this	Chapter.
 (6) The Municipal Tax assessed on the annual value of buildings in which office accommodation is provided, or on the laud appertaining to them, should be treated as separate from the rent. If it is the local rule or custom for the tax to be chargeable to the owner, the tax for the entire building will be paid by the owner of the building, otherwise the officer concerned should pay the share, of such tax corresponding to the share of the rent payable by him and Government should be debited with the difference, see paragraph 317 -
      Notes—1. The orders contained in clause (3) and (4) of the paragraph are special for Buildings and Roads Department and over-ride the general orders regarding powers of, officers for sanctioning recurring expenditure chargeable to contingencies as shown in Annexure to this chapter.
2.	Powers of various officers in the matter of sanctioning the renting of office
accommodation are subject to the production of a non-accommodation certificate as required under note (3) and to the further proviso that no lease is entered into for a period of more than one year.
3.	(a) The rent of any land of building occupied for public purposes shall be paid by
the public office or department occupying it, and recorded in the public accounts as a charge of that office or department. The first charge in every year made in any contingent bill should be supported by a ‘certificate from the Executive Engineer con- corned that suitable buildings belonging to the Government were not available for the purpose required and that the rental of the privately owned buildings viz, Rs	
     is reasonable.
(b) The rule does not authorize payments or adjustments between departments.
      (c) The rent of the buildings hired for residential purposes is paid from the minor head —Repairs” under the Major Head —50—Civil Works”. The hiring of buildings for residential accommodation requires like previous approval of Government and the consent of the Finance Department which must be applied for by the Heads of Departments concerned duly supported by a certificate from the Divisional Officer of the Buildings and Roads Department that the rent is reasonable and no suitable Government accommodation is available. In the ease of such building the lease is to be executed by the building and Roads Department and the formalities laid down in paragraph 10 44 of the Buildings and Roads Department Manual of Orders, regarding the recovery of rent, are to be observed.
      (d) In the case of buildings which have been hired‘ as offices, any sub-letting requires the approval of Government and consent of the Finance Department. The rent of such building e should be debited to the contingent grant of the Government Servants concerned and any recovery of rent for portion sublet should be made by the Head of —Moe sad credited to Revenue Heed of the Department end not to me Buildings and
CHAP-III	PUBLIC BUILDINGS—GENERAL	[3 .12
Roads Department Revenue head. Lease of buildings hind as offices should be concerned of the Department of the Buildings and Roads Department should only be con‘ corned with:-
(i) giving a non-accommodation corticated;
      (ii) certifying that the rent of the building is reasonable; and (iii) when a part is sub-let, assessing the correct rent of the pert sub-let,
      (iii) The responsibility of the recovery or rents from Government servants civil employ occupying public buildings ordinarily rests with the Public Works Department, but Zn exceptional cases, where the cost of building has been treated as a civil charge the Accountant. General, must take the necessary steps to see that the Executive Engineer of the Division concerned is furnished with the necessary particulars.
3.A,—Government servant permitting occupation of a Government or leased building by any private person of local body should at once inform the authority in charge of the building of such occupation. The authority in charge will be the Executive Engineer concerned in t he case of buildings in charge of Buildings and Roads Department % and the head of the deportment concerned in. the case of building rented as o eta.
4.	The certificate required from Divisional Officers as to the reseasonableness of rent
referred to in sub-paragraphs (c) and (d) above, will not be necessary in eases where the rent involved is less than Re. 40 per mensem.
V—RENTING OF BUILDINGS
     3-12.	It! is the duty of the Divisional Officer or the Estate Officer Where there is one to
Endeavour to get tenants for public buildings not immediately required for Government use. They should generally be let from month to month, month but a lease may be given up to one year by the Superintending Engineer or the Divisional Officer provided the rent of the building as fixed by the competent authority does not exceed Rs. 200 and Rs. 100 a month respectively. A clause in the agreement should be added, when necessary, to enable the Divisional Officer to terminate the lease at short notice in case the building is required by Government.
     (2)	The Divisional Officer or Estate Officer is empowered to let in the most advantageous
way possible Government owned or hired residential buildings under their charge for which a Government servant is not paying rent under rules 539 to 546 of Annexure I to this Chapter or the equivalent rules of other integrating units an. tenants vacating or desiring to occupy them should invariably apply to him direct. It must be clearly understood that no other -district official is permitted to exercise this authority without the prior approval and consent of the Divisional Officer.
NOTES— ( l )—Whenever a residence cannot be allotted to the incumbent of the post to which it is attached or to a Government servant of the class for which It was constructed it may be let to a Government servant net holding the particular post or not belonging to that class subject to the conditions that :-
(a) the allotment ceases within two month, of a Government servant for whoa the residence is intended becoming available at the station of tenan and
(b) the rent to ho recovered under the rules from the temporary tenant is no less than of the standard rout of the house.
(i) A competent authority may relax the provisions of thin note as a special case if considered necessary. -
(The assent of Finance Department is not presumed ‘aider note-ii
i)	As an exception to the general rules contained in sub-paragraph (ii) above the actual
allotment in the case of the following residential buildings, has been left to the officer noted against each, who will, however, be responsible to intimate all changes In occupancy to the Divisional Officer of the Provincial Division concerned for purposes of assessment and recovery of rent by the latter-:
(1) let and 2nd Assistant Commissioner‘s Deputy Commissioner, Lyallpur Subject to residences at Lyallpur	the control of the Commissioner Multan
Division.

Note—Residence of different Departments which are earmarked for officials of that department shall be allotted by the department concerned to whom these residences belong.
313. Public buildings let to private individuals should not be altered or enlarged at Government expense to suit the tenant and persons occupying public building on rent are prohibited from making any alterations even at their own expenses, except with the express concurrence of the Superintending Engineers. The fact of any additions or alterations being made by the tenant confers no right of ownership on him, nor can the fact of the occupant having made additions or alterations at his own expenses be considered as giving him any claim to a set off against, or diminution of rent. these conditions should be entered in the agreement or lease, 314. Government servants occupying Government Buildings or leased buildings as residences are strictly prohibited making privately any kind of additions or alterations therein whether structural, sanitary or Electrical, without the express permission of the Superintending Engineer of.	The	Buildings	and	Roads	Department.
315. No public building in the charge of‘ the Divisional Officer may be occupied as a private residence without his consent except under the orders of his departmental superiors or of Government.
1. 16.	On no account is any church, chapel, mosque, temples, tomb or other building
devoted to religious use, to be occupied as a. dwelling house, or for any other purpose, with- out the consent of the persons interested and the sanction of the principal civil or political authority on the spot. See also paragraph 281.
VI-TAXES
317. Municipal taxes on Public Works buildings other than buildings occupied as
residences, are payable by the department occupying them and are debatable to that department, as explained below:-
(a) As a general rule, Municipal rates and taxes on non-residential buildings paid by, or passed on to a department occupying the hole or part of the building, are debited to the contingencies of the department concerned. Where, however, the whole or part of the tax paid by the Buildings and Roads Department, or by a Civil Department as the Department in administrative control of the buildings, the payments may be charged to the maintenance estimate of the buildings concerned.
(b) Taxes on non-residential buildings occupied by departments if paid by a department nominated by Government in this behalf and not passed on to the occupying department are charged to 57- Miscellaneous Rents Rates and Taxes.
       Municipal and other taxes (in the nature of house or property tax or otherwise), when payable by Government in respect of buildings occupied as residence.‘ will be adjusted as part of the cost of maintenance of the building. Where, however, the whole or any portion of the taxes, which by local rule or custom are ordinarily livable from the tenant, is paid by. a department other than the department in. administrative control of the building, the charge may be-treated as contingent	expenditure	of	the	paying	department.
(2) The responsibility for the acceptance of the assessment rests with the Divisional Officer in charge of the building and, on the Divisional Officer recording his acceptance, the payment will be arranged for by the department concerned, If the assessment appears unduly high, proceedings
Should be taken to obtain redress under the ordinary municipal law and recourse should not ordinarily be had to the special provisions of act XI of 1881. No municipal taxes are livable on public buildings situated in cantonments. In any ease in which a lump sum is paid as tax for all Government buildings, or for a number of Government buildings in a municipality, it shall, provided the building] are in the occupation of more then one department of Government, be	paid	in	the	Civil	Department.
Note-	Recourse to the special as provisions of Act XI of 1881 should be had only
when	an amicable (though possibly	arbitrary	) settlement With	the local	authority has
faded	in cases when the property to be	assessed	is, from its nature, such as not	to admit of the
application of ordinary principles in assessing the payment thereon of any particular tax, e.g., when	the assessment is-on the	letting	value and the	property	is of such
nature	that it is difficult to conceive	its being	lot and impossible	to form any estimate of
the rent that would be obtained for it if the Government offered to let it.
            (8) (a) In the case of buildings occupied as residences, all municipal and other taxes in the nature of house or property tax payable by Government in respect of such buildings shall be taken into account in calculating standard rents under rules 58 to 518 Annexure I to Chapter III. Taxes other than these whether required to be paid by local rule or 		custom by
the oner or tenant shall be paid by the latter in 	 addition to the standard rent or 10 per cent of
monthly payable under Rules 522 (a) and (b of Annexure - -: to this Chapter. They will also be recoverable in cases when buildings are occupied rent free except from those who are enjoying rent-free concession as shown below the rules in Annexure I to Chapter III.
Note—	The tent —property tax” as used above, should be Interpreted In the
general sense end not In the technical sense assigned to it in any particular Act or Cod.. and it should, therefore net be considered to include taxes levied for specific services Tendered for the benefit of the occupier. Therefore all taxes of a service character, such as water tax, drainage tax, though they may be included in a consolidated demand for property tax, should ‘be recovered separately from the occupier under Rule 5. 2 (6) (u) Annexure I to this Chapter.
(b)	Municipal   and	other	taxes	(in   thenature	of	house	orproperty	taxor	otherwise)	whenpayable   by	Government	inrespect	ofbuildings	occupied	asresidences,	will	be	adjustedas	part	of   the	cost	of	maintenance	of   the	building.	Taxespayable	bytenants	under	the	local   rules  or	custom	will	bepaid	by	them	direct	in	cases	in  which  the	amount	of	taxpayable	to	the	municipality	in	respect   of	a   building	has	to	beborne	partly  by	the	Government	servantoccupying	the	buildingand partly by Government, the tax will be paid in full by
[Chap. III)	PUBLIC BUILDINGS—GENERAL	[3 18)
Government servant will be recovered from him by Government.
      Note— the excess water charges as distinguished from the water tax proper will not be debited to annual repair estimates but to miscellaneous advances, pending recovery from the tenants concerned.
      (c) With the sanction of Government exemption from the taxes payable by tenants (whether the amount is based on the rental or on the actual amount of service rendered) may be granted to Government servants on pay exceeding Rs. 150 per mensem.
      (d) In the case o Government servants on pay exceeding Es. 150 per mensem, who by reason of the nature of their duties occupy more expensive residences than they would if they were left to make their own arrangements, the amount of taxes based on the rental value of the house and ordinarily leviable by local rule or custom on the tenant and recoverable from the occupant may, with the sanction of Government, be reduced to an amount which would be payable on a rental equal to 10 per cent of the emoluments of the Government servants. If owing to changes of Government servants there is likely to be difficulty in recovery, a lump sum may be fixed for recovery in the case of each residence based on the above general principles. But charges which are levied not on the basis of rental, but as payment for a definite amount of service rendered, e.g., the quantity of water or electric energy supplied, must be paid in full by Government servants on pay exceeding Rs. 150 per	mensem.
      2) 18. The provisions of paragraph 317 above do not apply to the residences of the Governor as the payment of local rates and taxes in connection with these residences and the provision of electricity and water for the Govern& and his personal staff living in Governor Rouses is $.o be treated as maintenance expenditure payable by the Buildings and Roads Division	concerned.
      3) ) The occupants of staff quarters and other buildings appurtenant to Governor‘s House Lahore and Murree, are exempt from the payment of charges for water and electricity

      VII—SUMMARY, WATER SUPPLY AND ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS
3.19	. All works and repairs in connection with sanitary water supply and electric installation
to Government buildings should be carried out by or through the agency of the Buildings and Roads Department except in special cases under the orders of Government.
VIII—I INSPECTION OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS
      3.20. (a) It will be the duty of the Sub-Divisional Officer to see that all public buildings in his charge including provincial properties transferred to local bodies for maintenance are duly inspected at least once year as indicated below, such instructions being made in respect of soundness or otherwise of the roof and floor timber in the buildings and in respect of their general condition. The form of the register is as given below:—
Register of annual Inspection of Public Buildings borne on the Register of Provincial Buildings.
	Provincial Division.
	Provincial Sub-Division.
Item No. as per	Locality	Name of buildings Date of	Remarks by the divisional
register of buildings	inspection	officer
The general examination by the officers with respect to their ranks are as detailed below: —
(1) Overseer to inspect once every year all buildings
 costing Rs. 5,000 and below (including out-house), both residential and non- residential within jurisdiction
(2) Sub-Divisional Officer to inspect every year all buildings in their jurisdiction, costing above Rs.5000.
(3) Executive Engineer to inspect every year all the buildings in the Division
costing above Rs. 25,000,

(b)	The Executive Engineer, the Sub-Divisional Officers and the Overseer should record
       notes of their inspections in separate registers to be maintained by each of them.
 All these registers should be shown to the Superintending Engineer during his annual inspection of Divisional Offices.
(c) Executive Engineers should inspect as often as possible buildings which show cracks or definite signs of deterioration and take early steps to effect the necessary Improvement there to.
FORM OF REGISTER OF INSPECTOR
OF BUILDINGS.
Station 	
Name of Buildings or group of buildings 	
Capital cost Rs.	
Officer responsible for inspection .	
Executive Engineer, Sub-Divisional Officer,
YearPortGeneral condition      RemarksFoundations.....Floors....Wall structureWall structure.Roof beams...Roof covering....Dated	
Signature	
       The Executive Engineer will report to Superintending Engineer, if circumstances require it, for that Officer‘s further action. Matters which the Superintending Engineer cannot deal with, should be brought to the notice of Regional Engineer. The Executive Engineer and the Superintending
3.21. 3..23	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[CHAP. III
      Engineer on their tours of inspection should see that above instructions are being complied with.
IX—REGISTERS OF BUILDINGS.
3.22. Each Superintending Engineer will keep a register (in Buildings and Roads Stereo Form No. 121 and 121-A) by Civil Districts of all buildings in charge of the Department within his Circle, and each Divisional Officer a similar resister of all the buildings within his Division. In these registers the value of the laud comprised in a property will be shown separately from the value of the building or buildings there on. the value of each separate structures being also shown separately. It the case of a purchased property the price paid will be apparitional between the various items comprising the property, e.g., land, main buildings, servants‘ quarters, compound wall, well, etc. The registers will also show whether the building is to be maintained at	the	cost	of	Central,	Provincial	or	Local	Funds.
Notes- The register of buildings may be divided into two parts, one for the record of buildings of a permanent nature and other for record of buildings of a topiary character.
X—PLANS OF BUILDINGS.
3.23. In case of buildings and works borne on the returns of the Buildings and Roads Department, the Executive Engineer will be held responsible that plans of such buildings are corrected on completion of any alterations.
      A register of all buildings in the Department will be maintained in the office of the
       Regional Engineer.
     B—RESIDENCES FOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
I—General.
3.24. No houses may be built or purchased as residences for public servants, except in the following cases:-
(i) When it is the recognized duty or established custom of . the Government to provide quarters at Government expense.
(ii) When it is necessary on public grounds for the Government servant to reside on, or
close to the premises in which his duties have to be performed, such as a jail, a police Thana a school, a factory, a mint, etc.
(iii) When it is necessary to provide residences in part of the country where no civil station or canton-
Chap, III) PUBLIC Buildings—RESIDENCES [3‘24 FOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
Cantonment exists, and where lengthened term of residence would render camp accommodation unsuitable, e.g., buildings along lines of roads or canals, for the housing of officials employed on their construction or maintenance.
(iv) When it is shown to the satisfaction of Government that suitable house accommodation for Government servants whose appointments are permanent in respect of locality is not available in a civil station or cantonment already in existence, or available only under circumstances which will be likely to place such‘ Government servants in an undesirable position in relation to house proprietors.
iv.24. Before sanctioning or recommending proposals for the construction or purchase of a residence for a Government official, the authority concerned should consider whether the requisite accommodation cannot be more conveniently provided by taking an existing building on lease for such a term, and on such conditions, as may be appropriate. The hiring of such buildings requires the previous approval of Government and the consent of the Finance Department which must be applied for by the Heads of Departments concerned, duly supported by a certificate from the Divisional Officer of the Buildings and Roads Department that the rent is reasonable and no suitable Government accommodation is available. Such approval will be accorded subject to the condition that the present and future incumbents of the appointment held by the official for whose accommodation the building is leased shall be required during the term of the lease to occupy the house and to pay in accordance with rules 5.6 and 5.46 in Annexure I to this chapter.
Note— The certificate as to the reasonableness of rent required from the Divisional Officers will not be necessary in oases where the rent involved Is lees than Re. 40 per mensem (a) In case the Government is approached for a lease of a building, the proposal should clearly show the following:-
        in sum payable annually to the lesser.
        whether all repairs will be executed by the lesson; and if net;
        the estimated annual charges for maintenance and repairs, if they an to
        be executed by Government‘
in cases in which Government is liable to pay the municipal taxes the amount of such taxes
(v) The standard rent of the residence under rule 516 of Annexure I of the Chapter and
(vi) the average emoluments of the officer for whom the residence Is proposed and the
      maximum rent recoverable from him.
The proposals should show distinctly that the scale of accommodation is not in excise of that fixed by the Government.
Rs.28-     per mensem ..      632Re. 60 to 176     per mensem .,      795Re. 150 to 249     per mensem .. .      1,523Re. 250 to 399     per meneem ,. — .. .      1,700Re. 400 to 599     per meneem 	      2,067Re. 600 to 849     per mensem 	      2,475Re. 850 to 1199     per mensem 	      2,800Re. 1,200 to 1,799     per mensem 	      3,400Re. 1,800 and above per mensem o 		3,815

(b) in case of proposals to construct or to purchase a building the following information‘s should be given: -
(i) that the conditions of rule 5‘22 (a) in Annexure I of this Chapter will be fulfilled filled-:
(ii) the probable capital cost, the average annual cost of maintenance including taxes and the standard rent under rule 510 in Annexure I of this 4 chapter Chapter.
(iii) The average emoluments of the officer for whom the quarters are constructed.
(c) As a rule no proposal should be made for the supply of accommodation in excess of scale appropriate to the status of-the occupant. Subject to this main principle, every proposal should, so far as possible, be so formulated that the standard rent does not exceed the maximum rent ordinarily recoverable from the occupant under the rules in Annexure I to this Chapter. in order to watch the rent calculated under the rules in Annexure I of this Chapter shall fall within 10 per cent of the occupant‘s average emoluments a provisional rent statement should be sent to the Director, Audit and Account (Works), West Pakistan, with each proposal for the construction of a residential building or an addition or alteration to en existing building.
(2) No house should, however, be leased as a residence combined with office, or an office combined with residence. A house should be leased either as residence or an office. The criterion for deciding whether any house is an office or a residence should be that if the rent for the office portion is greater if is an office, if the rent for the residence portion is greater it is a residence, but if rent for office and residence portions is equal it should be treated as an office.
      Where any part of an office is used as a residence, the provisions of paragraph 311 (I) apply and as stated therein, rent should be -recovered by the Administrative Department concerned. But where the converse is the case i.e., a part of a residence is used as an office, the Buildings and roads
165
Chap. III)
FOR OFFICIALS
Department should recover rent from the tenant and also rent for the office from the office concerned,
(3) Leases should ordinarily provide that the less or will execute all structural repairs before the. building is occupied and will carry out such additions, alterations and repairs as are necessary to render the building habitable and suitable for the purpose for which it Is required. In the event of any addition or alteration to the building being made subsequent to the signing of the lease at the request of the occupant and at Government expense, the consent of the owner must first be obtained in writing unless the work is considered by Government to be essential for sanitary reasons, and the rent payable by the occupant will be increased under the following rules
      1. If the lessor agrees to take over the work done on the expiry of the lease and to
pay to Government the original cost of that work less an allowance for deterioration, which should be fixed before the work is done, the occupant will be required to pay the following additional charges: —
      (a) 6 per cent, on the capital cost of the additional work;
      (b) The percentage or amount fixed for deterioration
      (c) the annual estimated charges for maintenance and repairs of the additional work
(if	repairs
are executed by Government; or
      (ii)	If the landlord refuses to accept any liability for the additional work, the rent
payable by the occupant will be increased by a sum sufficient to cover during the period of the lease:—
      (a)	the	capital	sum	expended	including	interest
7 at the rate per cent specified in (1) (a) above; (b) the annual estimated charges for	maintenance
and repairs of the additional work.
Note—the amount to be recovered monthly front the tenant should be fixed when the work is completed and should be distributed equally through out bout the remaining	period	of	lease..
In case (i) the capital will be the total expenditure less half the amount which will be recovered on account of deterioration.
3.25- -3.26	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[Chap. III
      In case (ii) interest will be calculated on half the amount of the outlay.
(4) Capital expenditure under sub-clause (ii) of clause
(3) should only be incurred when absolutely necessary.
(5) Remission or reduction of charges on account of rent for the occupation of leased houses
as well as rent liability of the occupant will be governed by Rules as per annexure I to this Chapter.
(6) (i) In cases, however, where a bungalow which is occupied by a gazetted officer becomes vacant owing to the officer‘s transfer to another post, the Executive Engineer concerned.
may without the special sanction of the Provincial Government employ one chawkidar during the period the bungalow remains vacant at monthly emoluments sanctioned for a Beldar in the locality.
(ii) In the event of no one being either in occupation of a residence or responsible for the rent or if the officer responsible for the rent has received permission to reside elsewhere and the residence is un-occupied, the pay of a suitable establishment not exceeding one mali and cooly, may with the special sanction of the Provincial Government be charged to the annual repairs estimate of the building.
3.25. Standard rents of residential buildings may be fixed by Superintending Engineers of the Buildings and Roads Department for all buildings within their charges.
II—SPECIAL RULES RELATING TO EXPENDITURE ON RESIDENCE
OF THE GOVERNOR.
326. The following rules govern the expenditure in connection
with the residences of the Governor of West Pakistan:—
(1) There are following residences of the Governor of the West Pakistan.
(a) Governor‘s House at Lahore.
(b) Governor‘s House at Murree.
(c) Governor‘s House at Peshawar.
(d) Governor‘s House at Nathiagali.
(e) Governor‘s House at Karachi.
(f) Governor‘s House at Quetta.
CHAP. III]	PUBLIC BUILDINGS -RESIDENCE	[3.26
FOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
(2) In pursuance of the provisions of Clause (b) of sub paragraph (1) of paragraph 7 of the
Government of Pakistan.
—The allowances and privilege” (Governors) Order 1952, the following general order has been made
Except with the special order of the President of Islamic Republic of Pakistan which must be obtained in advance, the amount of expenditure incurred on the maintenance, improvement, renewal or replacement of the official residences of the Governor shall not in any one year exceed the amounts respectively specified in the table below
MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS
ProvinceImprovementGardensElectricityWaterTaxesRepairsTotal    1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8Rs.Rs.Rs.Rs.Rs.Rs.Rs.West
Pakistan5,00031,20020,00013,0002,60028,2001,00,000
       Provided that the Governor in his individual judgment, may, without exceeding the maximum specified in column 8 of the above statement, re appropriate whenever necessary from or to one sub-head of the table above to or from another sub-head thereof.
Nate—	The above figures are exclusive of establishment and tools and pin charge. which
are not to be levied on works and repairs in connection with the residence of the Governor.
(3) The expenditure on original works as defined in paragraph 21 of this Code,
pertaining to buildings and electricity, water supply and sanitary installations connected with these residences must not exceed during any year the appropriation sanctioned by the competent authority. This limit will be exclusive of the expenditure on establishment and tools and plants.
(4) The expenditure under various sub-heads prescribed for repairs and maintenance in
       clause 2 above must not exceed the appropriation sanctioned thereof.
(5) Disbursements will be made by the following officers -:
(i)	The Divisional Officer Incharge working under the order of the Superintending Engineer
       Incharge
(iv) The Military Secretary to Governor of the West Pakistan so far as garden establishment at
Governor‘s House is concerned.
(v) Note —The Military Secretary to the Governor of the West Pakistan shall an and when he considers necessary ,obtain a cheque for purposes of incorporating them in	the	accounts	of	his	Division	.
from the Executive Engineer concerned. The former after making payment will return the vouchers to the latter for the purpose of incorporating thorn in the accounts of his Division
6) The Secretary to the Government, West Pakistan, irrigation, Communication and Works. Department, will be the co-coordinating authority in regard to all expenditure on original works and will be responsible to the Audit Department for keeping the aggregate expenditure during the year and the total expenditure on individual works within the limits mentioned in clauses 2 and 3 above. The Audit Department will watch the total expenditure during a year against the permissible limits.
(7) Except for works sanctioned by. the President of Islamic Republic of Pakistan the administrative approval of the Governor in his individual judgment is necessary in each case and should be obtained by the Secretary to Government Irrigation, Communications and Works Department, for communication to all concerned.
(8) The first charge against the grant for the year for original works will be the unexpended balance on the 30th June of all uncompleted works of the previous year. Provision for this charge should at once be made at the commencement of the year, and any subsequent changes in the figures thus taken which may be necessitated by adjustment or correction in the supplementary accounts of the years, should be affected	later	on.
(9) No authority giving technical sanction to a detailed estimate should permit an excess over the amount of the administrative approval, either in the first instance when sanctioning the detailed estimate or subsequently when sanctioning revised estimates or passing an excess. Whenever excess is anticipated on any work, a report should at once be made to the Secretary, Irrigation Communications and Works Department. No disbursing officer should incur even the ordinary permissible excess of	5%	of	the	sanctioned	estimate.
(10) All disbursing officers should give the earliest intimation to the Secretary, irrigation Communication and
Chap. III]	PUBLIC BUILDINGS —RESIDENCES	3.27
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
Works Department, of all anticipated saving ,if they are in a position to surrender them definitely so that, if necessary, they may be utilized on other works. If the amount of the 4 sanctioned detailed estimate is less than that of the administrative approval for the work, the savings should at once be reported to the Secretary, Irrigation Communication and Works Department by the officers sanctioning the detailed estimates.
(11) A record of the progressive expenditure on all original works and repairs detailed by items of works will be prepared by the Buildings and Roads Department, for the periods ending 31st December, the last day of February, 31st March, 30th April, 31st May and 30th June during each financial year, and will be submitted to the Director of Audit and Accounts (Works) for check.
      The - Audit Department will return the statement after
check to the Buildings and Roads Department, within two weeks, with a certificate as to its correctness or otherwise.
1.1- CLASSIFICATION OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS AND
ASSESSMENT OF RENT.
3.27- Government buildings intended for occupation as residences are divided into two classes Class I—Buildings which will ordinarily be occupied by officers liable to pay the full standard rent subject to the limit of 10 per cent. of their emoluments. (See Rules 5.22 (b) annexure I of this Chapter).
Class-II	Buildings from which recovery of the full standard rent is not expected i.e.,
buildings which will ordinarily be occupied by officials who are entitled to accommodation rent free or at rates reduced under Rule 5. 28 annexure I to Chapter III.
Note-	The fact that a buildings of class I is occasionally occupied by a tenant who is
entitled to accommodation rent free or at a reduces rent not be justify its removal from class I toll, and similarly a buildings in Class II should not be transferred to class I whenever it is occupied by a tenant who may be required to pay rent in accordance with the rules. Buildings should be transferred from one class to the other only when there is a permanent change in the conditions under which they will ordinarily be rented Transfers should be made only under the orders ,of government and should have effect in all cases from the commencement of financial year.
3.28- 3.28)	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE [CHAP. III
IV— RENT RULES FOR GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS USED AS RESIDENCES.
3.28. The rules governing the recovery of rent for Government buildings used as residences, its remission and reduction are laid down in Rules.5.6 to 5.46 of Annexure I to Chapter III, any point which is not covered by them should be referred to Government for orders.
      2.	All applications for sanction to reduce the, rents of Government buildings
occupied as residences below the amount which should be charged under the foregoing rules must be accompanied by a tabular form in which should be shown the undermentioned particulars: -—
      (1) Value of building and site.
      (2) Average annual charges for maintenance: —
      (a) Special, and
      (b) Ordinary.
      (3) Rent assessed according to rules.
      (4) Proportion of total area occupied by office (if any).
      (5) Deduction on account of office rent (if any).
      (6) Rent that would be payable by occupant.
      (7) Rent that is proposed.
      (8) Average emoluments of occupant.
(9) Market rate for similar accommodation in the same station (to be given as far as practicable).
(10) Average rent chargeable under these rules other Government buildings, with, as nearly as may be similar accommodation (to be given as fa___ practicable.).
PERIODICAL REVIEW OF CONCESSIONS
3.29. In cases in which the grant of free quarters or of quarters at reduced rents has been sanctioned, Heads. of Departments and the Chief Engineer may, should such concessions appear to them for any reason to be no longer necessary, review such cases and recommend to Government the
[CHAP-III	'PUBLIC BUILDINGS -RESIDENCES	[3-30—.3-33
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
       Withdrawal of the concessions accompanied by data statements for sanction to the recovery of rent.
3.30. The recovery of rent for Government buildings occupied as residences by members of work-charged establishment is governed by the principle laid down in rule 5-22 b) Annexure I to Chapter III. Such members of this establishment who do not draw pay in excess of Rs. 30 per mensem shall, however, be exempt from the payment of rent.
(2) Where quarters are provided for Road Inspectors, they should occupy them on the same terms as the regular subordinate Establishment of this Department.
3.31. When any Government building is, under proper authority, let to a private person rent should be regularly recovered in advance for the same at the rates prevailing in the locality for similar accommodation belonging to private owners; but, without the special, permission of Government, the rents charged for the buildings thus let in any station should not be less than would result from. the application to them of the proviso below rule 5.16 of Annexure I to Chapter III.
 Note I.	Occupation of a residence bys Government servant‘s family after his headquarters
have transferred to another station, Is subject to this ruling in so far as rent liability is concerned,‘ except in cases of temporary transfers not exceeding four months, In which case the actual recovery shall be confined to 10 per cent of the pay of the Government servant concerned or standard rent which ever Is less provided the Superintending Engineer in case of Buildings and Roads Department.
       Head of Department in the case of Departments other than Buildings and Road Department.
       Satisfies himself and certificate that the transfer is temporary and it will not exceed four months
Note-2.	The rate of departmental charges for capital cost, addition and alteration and
maintenance and repairs shall be that In force at the time of calculation, of rent. In all ones where buildings are merely acquired by Government through the agency of the Buildings and Roads Department, charge of S per cent only on the capital coat shall be levied in lieu of the Lull rate of departmental	charges.
3.32. The Head Teacher, Assistant Teacher and Mistress detailed by the District Board, Multan, for the school for the children of the jail staff at the new Central Jail, Multan, are allowed rent free residential accommodation on the jail premises, for so long as the quarters occupied by them are	not	required	for	any	other	purpose	by	Government.
3.33. A shopkeeper, a shoe-maker and a tailor are allowed to occupy, free of rent the quarters allotted to them in the lines of the Baluch Levy Dera Ghazia Khan
334—336)	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT	CODE CHAP. III
3.34. The Canal Patwari the lady teacher of the District Board Girls School and the three teachers of the District Board School at the Adult Farms, Burewala, are allowed rent free accommodation, subject t to the condition that the accommodation is available after requirements of the officials of the Reclamation Department, who are stationed at the Burewala Farm, have been met
3.35. A nominal rent of rupee one per annum will be charged from the private individuals occupying Government quarters noted below
At Fort Munro       At Khar1. Shopkeeper1.Shopkeeper (shop and resident quarters)2.Petitiion -writer    2. Delivery Agent3.Baker-cum-Butcher4. Delivery Agent
      This) however, does not confer on these occupants a prescriptive right to remain in possession of the quarters,
3.36. Tailors, Barbers, Mochis and Washerman employed and residing in all the Police Lines in West Pakistan should be provided with rent-free accommodation.
ANNEXURE I 10 GRAFTER III. OP BUILDINGS AND
ROAD DEPARTMENT CODE.
(.as ref end to in paragraph 3.12)
PART 1,
EXTRACT FROM CIVIL SERVICE RULES(PB) CHAPTER -V.
VOLUME PART-I
II- RENT OF GOVERNMENT RESIDENCES
GENERAL
5.6. The following rules govern the allotment to Government servants for use by them as residences of such buildings owned or leased by Government or such portions thereof as may be made available for the purpose.
Note 1.—These rules shall also apply to Ministers.
Note 2.	If a judge of the High Court Ss provided with residential accommodation either
leased or owned Government, it shall be on such conditions, In regard to the payment of rent r otherwise as are, for the time being, applicable to members of the civil services of Pakistan serving at lahore under the administrative control of the Central Government.
      Note - if the Chairman or any member of the Punjab and North. West Frontier Province Joint Public Service Commission m provided with residential accommodation either leased or owned by Government, it shall be on such conditions in regard to the Civil services of Pakistan serving at Labor, under the administrative control of the Provincial Government.
Note-4.	When a Government servant of a government other than the Punjab Government
occupies by official arrangement a residence provided by the Punjab Government or vice versa, rent shall be recoverable from the Government servant in so. accordance with the rules in. Appendix 4 to the Punjab Financial Rules reproduced In Part II of this annexure ‘A‘ of Buildings and Road. Department Code.
5.7, Nothing contained in these rules shall so operate as to require payment of rent, for the occupation of residences supplied by Government, by those Government servants who have been exempted from such payment by order or the Governor. General or to affect the amount or rent or charges payable by those Government servants In whose case the amount so pay. able is prescribed	by	the	Governor-General.
(5) Capital cost of Buildings and Assessment of Rents.
(1) CAPITAL COST OF A RESIDENCE.
1.8. For the purpose of the assessment of rent, the capital cost of a residence owned by Government shall include the cost or value of sanitary, water supply and electric installations and fittings but exclude the cost or value of the site (including expenditure on its preparation); and shall	be	either,.—
      (a) the cost of acquiring or constructing the residence and any capital expenditure
Incurred after acquisition or construction; or, when this is not known.
      (b) The present value of the residence.
      —Provided that, where It is so directed by general or special order, the value of the site and the cost of Its preparation shall be included In the capital cost, and the cost of sanitary, water. Supply and electric installations may be excluded. If the cost of sanitary, water supply and electric installations are ordered to be excluded rent for such Installations shall be levied at the rates	specified	under	Rule	5.16	(4).	-
- Note -2.	The cost of restoration or special repairs shall not be added to capital cost or
present value, unless auth restoration or repairs add to accommodation or involve replacement of the existing type, ct work by work of a more expensive character.
ANNEXURE]	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[CHAP.III
1.9. For the purpose of Rule 5.8—
(1) Expenditure incurred on works such as—
(a) raising, leveling, dressing sites;
(b) construction of revetment and retaining walls, unless when incurred in
connection with the provision of a tennis court;
(c) Storm-water drains; and
(d) boundary pillars;
(i) shall be considered as expenditure on preparation of & site; and
(ii) Expenditure incurred on works such as—
(a) compound walls , knees and gates;
(b) roads and culverts within & compound.
shall be included in the capital cost of the residence for the purpose of assessment of standard rent.
1.10. When the present value of a residence and of the site on which it stands is un
known —vide clause (6) of Rule 5.8 the value of the residence and of the site shall be estimated separately by the Divisional Officer who shall, if the estimated value of either does not exceed Rs. 25,000, submit the estimate to the Superintending Engineer who shall determine the present value. If the Divisional Officer‘s estimate of either the site or the residence exceeds Rs. 25,000, he shall submit it to the Superintending Engineer, who shall forward it to the Chief Engineer, who shall determine, the value of the residence and of the site. The Divisional Officer‘s estimate shall, In both cases, be accompanied by a report of the Chief Civil Officer of the district in regard to the value of the land and also the value of the building with reference to the market value of similar buildings in the vicinity.
1.11. A competent authority may, for reasons which should be recorded, authorize a revaluating of all residences of a specified class or classes within a specified area to be conducted under Rule 5.10 above, and may revise the capital cost of any or all such residences on the basis of such revaluation.
Note—The intention of this rule is to rise revaluation of a residence or residences in accordance with the Rule 5.10 even when the factors specified caluse (2) of Rules 5.5 ate known. 5-12. The capital cost, howsoever calculated, shall not take into consideration (1) any charges on account of establishment and tools and plant other than such as were actually charged direct to the work in, cases in which the residence was constructed by Government, or (2) in other cases, the	estimated	cost	of	such	charges.
NOTE—full departmental charges should be levied in cases referred to in No. (1) below Rule 5.8.
5-13. Renewals of a building or of its subsidiary works, such as cut- houses, roads, drains, culverts, etc., or a new construction, such as retaining walls, necessitated by the occurrence of fire, flood, earthquake, abnormal
Annexure I
storm or other calamity will be chargeable to the capital cost, but on completion a competent authority will decide what -amount should be written off the original capital cost .When a proton of a building is required to be dismantled to make room for alterations and additions the capital value of the dismantled portion should be dealt with under the rules in the Public Works Department Code applying to buildings generally.
5.14. A competent authority may, for reasons which - should be recorded, write off a special portion of the capital cost of a residence-
(1) When a portion of the residence must be set aside, by the Government Servant to whom the residence Is allotted, for the reception of official and non-official visitors visiting him on business; or -
(2) When it is satisfied that the capital coat, as determined under the above rules, would be greatly in excess of the proper value of the accommodation provided.
Note—See also rule 5.32.
5.15) In assessing the cost or value of the sanitary, water supply and electric installations and fittings (vide rule 6.8) the following shall be regarded as comprising the installation and fittings:
— -
ELECTRIC SUPPLY.
(1) Wiring, including the supply line from the main, and all connected apparatus such as fuse boxes and switches.
(2) Fixed lamps (bracket and pendant) including shades holders but excluding shades and bulbs. -
(3) Wall plugs of table lamps, table fans and electric heaters.
(4) Fan points (excluding ceiling fans and regulators).
(5) Lighting interceptors
(6) Meters when supplied d by Government.
SANITARY AND WATER .SUPPLY
   (1) Pipe, including service pipe from the main.
      (2) Apparatus for hot water-supply. -
       (3) Cisterns, taps and other necessary fittings
      (4) Baths; basins and lavatory fittings. -
      (5)-Meters when provided at the cost of Government.
(6) Drains including the main connection with the sewer, and all connected apparatus such as galleys, channels, traps and vent pipe for the disposal- of house wastes and sewage. -
Note-1. The inclusion of these articles in this rule dose not bind government to provide alt or any of them in a residence. -
(2) None-2. When table lamps, talus fans or other charge appliances not included under —Electric Supply” above, have already been supplied, their cost should be included in the capital cost of the residence, but on their becoming unserviceable they should not be replaced the capita! cost of the residence being reduced accordingly,
ANNEXURES]	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE [CHAP. III
(11) STANDARD RENT
11.10. The Standard rent of a residence shall be calculated as follows:—
(a) In the ease of leased residences the standard tent shall be the sum paid to the lessor plus an allowance for meeting during
the period of leases the probable cost o charges for—
(i) Both ordinary and special maintenance and repairs of the residence as may be a charge
on Government including maintenance and repairs of any additional work done at Government expenses.
(ii) Capital expenditure on additions and alterations as may be a charge on Government;
(iii) interest on capital expenditure referred to in (ii) above ; and
(iv) the rates tor taxes In the nature of house or property tax if any, payable, under any law or
Custom by the owner to a municipality or other local body (but not recoverable from the Government Servant to whom the residence is allotted).
      The allowances for meeting such capital expenditure on additions and alterations as may be a charge on Government and the interest and depredation in connection therewith, shall be as laid down in paragraph 3.22 (3) of the Punjab Public Works Department Code (Second Edition).
(b) In the case of residences owned by Government, the standard rent shall be calculated on
the capital cost of the residence, and shall be either of the following whichever is less— (i)	a percentage of such capital cost equal to such rate of interest as may from time to time
be fixed by competent authority plus an addition for municipal and other taxes in the nature of house or property tax In respect of the residence payable to Government and for both ordinary and special maintenance and repairs, such addition being determined under rule 2.21 or (ii) six per cent per annum of such capital cost The restriction of 6 per cent per annum shall not apply In the case of residences the capital cost of which is calculated under the proviso to Rule 5.8
(c) In both eases mentioned in clauses (a) and (b) above standard rent shall be expressed as
standard for a calendar month and shall be equal to one-twelfth of the annual rent as calculated above subject to the provision‘s that, in special localities, or in respect of special classes of residence, * competent authority may fix a standard rent to cover a period greater than one month, but not greater than one year. Where a competent authority takes action under this proviso standard rent so find shall not be a larger proportion of the annual rent than the proportion which the period of occupation as prescribed under Rule 5.41 infra bears to one year.
Annexure -I
(c) When sanitary, water supply and electric installations as defined in Rule 5.15 are not included in the capital cost of a residence rent shall be assessed on the capital value of such installations at the following percentages:—
interestMaintenanceDepreciationSanitary installationsAs per rule 5.196 per cent (ordinary 5 per cent special 11 percentageElectric installationDitto4 percent5 percent
Note I.	Municipal taxes which by local rule or custom are levied on the occupant will be
payable by the occupant in addition to the rent payable to Government under these rules.
Note—2. See also Rule 5.33 infra
Note—3.	For the purposes of clauses (a) and (b) above the additions for both ordinary and
special maintenance and repairs shall not Include anything for the establishment and tools and plant charges except to the extent allowed under rule 5.12 infra
Full Department charges should, however, be in cases referred to in Note (1) below Rule 5.8.
5. 17. When the standard rent of a residence has belt calculated no to Calculation on account
      of minor additions ad alterations to^ the residence shall be made during the next five yearn, save in the following circumstances:—
      (1). When the up-to-date additional expenditure chargeable as capital cost exceeds 5 per cent of the figure last adopted as the capital cost recalculation shall be made with effect from the commencement of the next financial year or from any earlier date from which a new tenant becomes liable for the payment of rent.
      (2) When a portion of the capital cost of a residence is written off under the orders of a competent authority, the rent should be recalculated forthwith,
Note—It is the duty of the Executive Engineer to give timely notice to the tenant concerned of the increase in rent . Omission, however, on his part to give such intimation in any case will not constitute a reason for the enhancement of not taking effect from the date later than that on which it is du, under the above rules.
5.18. If a building is actually occupied prior to the closing of the accounts of expenditure on its construction, acquisition or equipment, rent is nevertheless chargeable from the date of occupation and should be fixed provisionally with the sanction of the competent authority. The rent thus fixed provisionally while the accounts are open is subject to revision with retrospective effect when they are closed and no remission of rent on this account can be made save with the sanction of the competent authority.

5.19. The rates of interest given in the following table should be applied in calculating the standard rent of residences under rule 5.16 (b)
Rate of interest

 Percent   PercentBefore 1st April 1919 31   41st April 1992 to 31st December 1921 31   51st August 1992 to 31st December 1921 31   6From 1st January 1922 until further orders 6   6
Note -	The date of construction referred to in column (I) of this table should be taken as
the date on which the accounts of the estimate for the construction of the residence are closed .In respect of expenditure on additions and alteration to residences the interest should be calculated at the rate applicable on the date on which the accounts of the estimates for the additions and alteration are closed.
5.20. The average annual cost of maintenance and repairs will consist of two parts
special and ordinary charges as explained below :-
      i) Special charges will be those incurred in the renewal of floors or roofs or on other
special repairs or replacements occurring at long intervals Provision for such charges should be made in the form of percentages on the capital cost of each building. These percentages will very for different classes of buildings and are laid down in rule 5.21 when repairs are necessitated by the occurrence of fire flood earthquake abnormal storm or other calamity the cost of such special repairs should under revenue charges during the year and should not be included in the total charges or taken into account as a basis for the revision of the rent.
ii) Ordinary charges will include the cost of ordinary annual repairs together with a
proportional share of the expenditure that may be required quarterly or at other short intervals the amount of theses changes as regards buildings constructed or acquired by the irrigation branch is estimated as laid down in Blue 5.21 .For building constructed or acquired by the buildings and roads branch these will be estimated within the limits laid down in rule 5.21 by the Executive Engineer of the Division and approved by the superintending Engineer.
Note -See also rule 5.13
ANNEXURE-I
5.21. The following percentages of cost will be assessed on account of ordinary and special repairs in calculating the standard rent under Rule 5.16(b) (i):-
       When acquired or constructed through the agency of the Public works Department buildings and roads branch :-
ASSESSABLE PERCENTAGE ON THE CAPITAL COST OF THE
BUILDING EXCLUDING VALUE OF SITE-I
Class	of
buildingsDescriptionSpecial repairsOrdinaryAThose is good order built by the public works department in a semi percent style i.e with pucca foundation kutcha pucca outside walls lime pointed pucca parapets and chimneys traced jack arch or wooden karri roof over steel girders1          1 to 3BThose of a similar style of construction but not in good condition either built by the public works department	or
purchase from private individuals and added to or altered after purchase1          3 to 5CTemporary buildings i.e these with walls of mud masonry with thatched or tiled roof11          5 to 7
A charge of 41 percent of the capital cost will be made in addition to the above to cover the maintenance of water supply sanitary and electric installations where such exist
        Note- With reference to the minimum and maximum rates fixed above for annual ordinary repairs superintending Engineers of the Buildings and Roads Department should arrange to communicate to the Director audit and accounts (works) such percentages as are actually applied in fixed the standard rent in each individual case so that the rents fixed may be susceptible of security
        (c )	Conditions and Tenancy and rent payable by government ser cants.
        5.22. when government supplied a government servant with a residence leased or owned by it the following conations shall be observed:-
        a) the scale of accommodation supplied shall not except at the Government servants own request
exceed that which is appropriate to the status of the occupant :
b) ) Unless in any case it be otherwise expressly provided in these rules he shall pay (i) rent for the residence such rent being the
Standard rent as defined in Rule 5.16 above or 10 per cent of his monthly emoluments whichever is less and (ii) municipal and other taxes payable by government in respect of the residence not being in the nature of house or property tax
5.23. Noting contained in clause (b) of rule 5.22 above shall operate to prevent Government from-
(i) grouping after the standard rents have been calculated under the provision of Rule 5.16 above number of residences whether in a particular area or of a particular class or classes for the assessment of rent subject to the following conditions being full filled:-
      (1) that the basis of assessment is uniform: and
(2) that the amount taken from any Government servant shall not exceed 10 per cent of his monthly emoluments
      ii)	taking a rent in excess of that prescribed I rule 5.22 (b) above from a Government
servant.
(1) Who is not required or permitted to reside on duty at the station at which the residence is supplied to hi, or
(2) Who at his won request is supplied with accommodation which exceeds that which is appropriate to the status of the post held by him or
(3) Who is in receipt of a compensatory allowance granted on account of dearness of living g ;or
      (4) Who is permitted to sublet the residence supplied to him : or
      (5) Who sublets without permission the residence supplied to him
Note- under clause (ii) of this rule rent may be recovered in excess of 10 per cent of a government servants emoluments but not in excess of the standard rent as defined in rule 5.18.
      5.24. A Government servant who at his won request is supplied with a
residence owned or leased by Government of a class higher than that for which residence owned or leased by Government of a class higher than that for which he is eligible or affording accommodation in excess of that which is appropriate to this status shall unless otherwise decided by the competent authority be charged the full standard rent as calculated under rule 5.16 set surety be given the benefit of the 10 percent concession afforded by Rule 5.22 (b).
5.25. Non migratory Government servants permitted to recess in the hills shall pay for houses provided in the hills 10 percent of emoluments or the standard rent whichever is less for the period of allotment .This rent shall be paid in addition to the rent assessable under the rules for a residence supplied at the Government Servant‘s headquarters.
5.26. For the purposes of clause (b) of Rule 5.22 above —emoluments means;
      i) Pay”
      ii) Payment from general revenues and fees if such payments or fee are received in
the shape of a fixed addition to monthly pay and allowances as part of the Authorities remuneration of post”
ANNEXURE -I
(iii) Compensatory allowance oilier than travelling allowances and uniform allowance paid to nurses in hospitals, whether drawn from the general revenues or form a local fund.
(iv) Exchange compensation allowance;
(v) Pensions, other than a pension drawn under the provisions of Chapter VIII or Volume II of those rules, or compensation received under the Workmen’s Compensation Act, 1923. as subsequently amended;
(vi) In the case of a Government servant under suspension and in receipt of a subsistence grant the amount of the subsistence grant provided that if such Government servant is subsequently
allowed to draw pay for the period of suspension the difference c between the rent recovered on the basis of the subsistence grant
and the rent due on the basis of the emoluments ultimately drawn, shall be recovered from him.
It does not include allowances attached to the Quaid-e-Azam‘s Polka Medal and the Pakistan Police Medal
      .
Note —1. The emoluments of a Government servant paid at piece work rate rates shall be determined in such manner as the competent authority may prescribe
Note—2. the emoluments of a Government servant on Leave means the emoluments drawn by him for the last complete calendar month of duty performed by him prior to his departure on leave.
Note-3	The word —pension” occurring in this rule should be Interpreted as meeting the
entire amount of the pension originally sanctioned, and not only the residence after commutation.
NOTE. 4 — Whole deduction on secant of house-rent from Government servants in receipt of sterling overseas pay should be made in Pakistan and the sterling overseas pay should be converted into rupees at 28th January 1992 23rd in the rupees fro the purposes of calculating house-rent if the amount of house-rent has to be determined with reference to pay of the occupier.
517. The Government servant to whom a residence ii allotted,—vide Rule 519 set seq is responsible for the rent recoverable under the rules during the period of allotment unless exempted to competent authority under the previsions of Rules 5‘28.
Rent shall be recovered monthly in arrears for the period of allotment.
(d) Rent-free accommodation and waiving or reducing the amount of rent.
5.28, In special circumstances, for reasons which should hi recorded, by a competent authority—
(a) may, by general or special order, grant rent-free accommodation to any Government servant or class of Government servants, or
(b) May, by special order, waives or reduce the amount of rent to be recovered from the any Government servant or a class of Government servants; or
(c ) May, by general or special order, waive or reduce the amount of municipal and other taxes, not being in the nature of house or property tax, to be recovered from any Government servant or class of Government servants.
Note —1. the following are the types of eases In which such exemptions or re devotion may be sanctioned.
(a) When a Government servant Is not officiating In a poet, but ii performing
ANNEXURE) PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	CHAP- III
Duties of a post In addition to those of his substantive post and already pays rent for a house.
(H) Whoa a Government servant, in addition to the duties of a post, canted en those of another post which preclude him from occupying the house. When a Government servant hag been promoted or transferred to a post in the same station and It is not considered necessary that he should change his residence.
(d) When a Government servant officiating in a poet for a period not exceeding two months ii actually, prevented from occupying the house provided for him by circumstances which the competent authority consider. sufficient to warrant an exception being made in his favors.
       Note-2. When rents are axed in accordance with Rule 6.16 and when one or more Government servants supplied with residence, In the particular area are granted a house free of rent or at reduced rent, the proper course is to apply Rule 5.16 first and Rule 5.28 afterwards; that I. the ordinary rent of the occupant of each house should be fixed under Rule 8.16 and any reduction n necessary should then be made under the rule.
Note -3	A list of Government servant, who have been granted rent free accommodation
under this rule is given in Appendix 7.
5.29 . When, under clause (a) of Rule 6.28 a Government servant is provided with quarters free of rent the exemption from rent shall, In the absence of any orders of Government to the.
contrary, be considered to be complete, i.e no additional charge shall be made In respect of the rent of specie services in the building the cost of which has been Included in the capital cost of the building.
The concession of rent free quarters does not carry with it the free supply of water and electric energy the cost of which must be defrayed by the Government servant himself. The rent of water and electric meters the cost of meters the cost of which has not been included In the capital cost of the building Is also payable by the Govt: servant.
Note-I. -	The occupant. of staff quarters and other buildings appurtenant to Government
Rouse, Lahore are exempted from payment of charges for in Rule 5.57.
Note -2. See also Rule 5.37
5.30 rent will be charged from the Government servant. in the Public Works Department (except those in the Public Works Secretariat other than drawing establishment) as have been in continuous service on regular establishment form from a date prior to 1st April 1926, in accordance with the following principles:—
(a) in the case of those whose emoluments do not exceed Re. 50 per mensem
no rent will be charged.
(b) In the case of those whose emoluments exceed Re. 60 per mensem but do
not exceed Rs. 100 per mensem, rent will be charged at V per cent on the emoluments subject to the provision that the emoluments are not thereby reduced to less than Re. 50 per mensem
(c) In the case of those whose emoluments exceed Re. 100 per mensem, rent
will be charged according to rule 5.16 above subject to the proviso that the emoluments are not there by reduced to less than Rs. 95 per mensem.
Annexure- I
      Note -Artificers In the Irrigation Branch who were discharged and re appointed after, let June 1935, on the reduction of the scale of pay for artificers from Rs.5-1-75 to Rs.40-1-60 will continue to enjoy the rent concessions which they were enjoying under this rule prior to let June 1935.
5.31 - A competent authority may sanction remission of rent due for the occupation of a Government building when the building is rendered uninhabitable by reasons of extensive repairs being in, progress, or from any other cause, provided that if the occupier finds that the house has become uninhabitable he shall at once report the matter to the Executive Engineer in charge of the building, who will immediately inspect it and it and forward a report on the subject to the Superintending Engineer The latter will take such steps in the matter as he considers necessary reporting his action to the competent authority, who will then decide whether partial or total remission of rent is to ‘be allowed.
      Note In convenience caused by petty or ordinary annual repairs is Insufficient to warrant remission of rent which should be granted only when extensive structural repairs justifying in the opinion of the competent authority the vacation of the building are carried out.
      5.32 . When a building is occupied partly as a residence and partly as an office the capital value of the portion occupied as a residence should be se separately estimated for the purpose of rule 5.16. The cost of maintenance of the residential portion should also be separately estimated and accounted for. This is usually done on the basis of plinth area. Note -When (a) separate office accommodation is provided for the occupant and (b) the use of part of lila residence for office or business purposes I. optional, no deduction from the rent is permissible on this account. Where, however, a Government servant though provided with office accommodation elsewhere than in his residence, is in the opinion of the competent authority obliged to set apart a portion of his residence for the reception of visitors both official and nonofficial on business a deduction from the rent Is permissible on this account to the extent of half the	assessed	rent	of	the	accommodation	so	used.
      5.33 , In leasing, acquiring or constructing an official residence for any one of the Government servants mentioned in column 2 of the statement in rule &35, Government will arrange to provide accommodation for visitors in the shape of a waiting room, and for a Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner, quarters for a police guard. The accommodation so provided puts half of the room set apart for the reception of visitors will not be taken into account in calculating the standard rent fixed for such residence under rule 5.16.
      Note-I. Where waiting rooms have been set apart for visitors in residence of Gazetted Government servants entitled to rebate of rent under this rule rebate will also be allowed for the portion of verandahs, if any, attached to the waiting rooms.
      Note.2. The guards quarters and visitors waiting room with visitors Book shed and half of the room set apart for the reception of visitors in the Residence, of the Hon our able Chief Justice of the nigh Court, Lahore, are to be treated as non- resident portions for purposes of calculation of rent. Rebate of rent will be granted in respect thereof
      5.34 . A rebate of rent will be allowed to the Deputy Collectors of the Irrigation Department for the room in their residential quarters occupied by peons when administrative requirements necessitate their living in the room provided in the quarters and it I not used for Deputy Collector‘s private purposes.
5.35. In the case or privately owned buildings hired directly the Government servants mentioned in column 2 of the statement below for use
As residences the following concessions will be admissible when suitable accommodation (other than a mere open verandah) for visitors or in the case of commissioner or Deputy Commissioner for a Police grad as the case may be is set aside to the satisfaction of the authority mentioned in column 3 of the statement:-
i The rent of the waiting room half the rent of the room in which visitors are received and the rent of the quarter for the Police guard will be borne by Government .
ii The portion of the rent which is thus to be borne by government on account of the wafting and reception rooms and quarters for the police guard will be assessed by the Executive Engineer concerned on the value of the accommodation in question. Its amount will bear the same proportion to the rent of the premises occupied as the space occupied by the accommodation provided bears to the total plinth area of the building.
iii The portion payable for the waiting and reception rooms will be paid by the Executive Engineer to the landlord .He will also arrange with the police Department for the portion payable fro the quarter for the police guard being paid by that department as police contingent charge direct to the Government servant occupying the building:-\
   1CommissionersCommissioner of Division concerned.   2Deputy Commissioners   3Settlement officers Assistant Settlement officers Colonization and Assistant Colonization officer.   4Members of the Civil services of Pakistan or P.C.S in charge of subDivisionsDirector of Agriculture   5Principal Agricultural Collage Lyallpur   6Registrar High Court of Judicature at LahoreHonourable Judge of high Court.   7Inspector General of Police all Deputy Inspector	General of Police and all
superintendents of Police (except the Principal police and the Assistant to the inspector General special branchInspector General of Police   8Deputy Superintendent of Police placed in charge of Sub-Division.
5.36 Constant changes in the accommodation to be set apart for visitors are depreciated on principal but so only as these changes are necessary and are made for sound reasons Govt: Servants concerned can set apart
ANNEXURE I
different rooms during summer and on condition that the accommodation set apart:-
      (a) is to the satisfaction of their superiors.
      (b) is not less In area than that for which Government waives rent; and
(c) ii in excess of that originally reserved Government is not called upon to waive a large portion of the rent than that already fixed;
      (d) rent for Special Services.
5.37. If a residence is supplied with services other than water. Supply, sanitary, or electric Installation and fitting such as furniture, fans, tennis courts or gardens the cost of which is not taken into account in calculating the standard rent of the residence under rule 8.16 and which are maintained at the cost of Government, rent shall be charged for these in addition to the rent payable under rules 5.22 to 5.25. The tenants will also be required to pay the cost of water, electric energy, etc., consumed. The additional rents and charges will be fixed and recovered in full as below. A competent authority may, however, in very special circumstances and for reasons which should be recorded, waive or reduce the additional rent and charges for any of the special amenities referred to above.
Note -I.	The value of the site shall not be taken into account in calculating the
rent of special services under this rule.
Note—2	Where, however, It is not directed by general or special order—
(a) The value of the site, and the cost of its preparation shall be included In the capital cost of tennis courts and gardens .
(b) Departmental charges shall be included in the capital coat of furniture, callings fans, tennis courts and gardens as well as their maintenance, depreciation and storage charges. The percentages rates for maintenance, depreciation sad storage shall not be levied on the capital coat after the addition of the departmental charges but before such addition, Interest shall, however, be calculated on the capital cost Including departmental charges.
(c) The cost of sanitary, water .supply and electric Installations may be excluded from the capital cost of tennis courts and gardens.
      Should the cost of sanitary, water supply and electric installations be ordered to be excluded, rent for such installations shall be levied at the rates special under rule 5. 16 (a).
(vi) For cases in which the above provision will apply see paragraph of the Punjab Public Works Department Code, 2nd Edition.
Furniture
The rent shall be recovered at the rate of 15 per cent per annum of the capital cost as detailed below:—
(a) Maintenance ‘...	4 per cent.
(b) Interest		6 per cent.
(c) Depreciation Including renewals and replacement 6 per cent.
Total ... 15 per cent.
ANNEXURE]	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	CHAP-III
CEILING FANS
      The rent shall he recovered at the rate of 17 per cent per annum on the capital cost as detailed below and shall be recovered during the whole of the year:—
Rs.
(a)  Interest ..      4 percent.(b)  Depreciation. .     6 percent.(c)  Maintenance ..     4 percent.(d)  Storage Charges ..     2 percent.     Total : 17 per cent.
TENNIS COURSE
      Rent to be recovered for a tennis court should cover both interest on the capital outlay involved at the rate prescribed by the competent authority for the purposes of Rule 5.16(b) and average actual maintenance charges for the past three years. The charges which may be incurred in connection with the provision and maintenance of tennis courts. Are- In regard to courts in the plains-
      (1) Construction of the court and of retaining walls where necessary;
(2) Surfacing of the court With bajri , grass, cement, etc., at the time of construction. . in regard to courts in the hills-.
      (1) and (2) as in section A above.
(3) provision and election of posts and wire netting for the purpose of enclosing the court and of permanently . fixed posts for suspending lawn tennis nets;
      (4) provision and erection of fixture and appurtenances for hanged screens; and .
      (5) Maintenance of items 3 and 4 only.
Note.—1. The coat of providing and renewing tennis nets the marking of of courts the provision of screen, the maintenance of the surface of the courts and &so the maintenance of items (3) and
(4) In section B above, in so far as they relate to the court. in the plains, should on no account, be admitted as a charge against the State.
Note -2.	For the purpose of those rules the maintenance charges shall be revised after
every three years.
Note-2	. For the purposed of these rules the maintenance charges shall be revised after
three year s.
Note-3 see also note under the head (Garden) below.
      Both Interests on the outlay incurred at the rate prescribed by the com potent authority for the purposes of rule &16 (b) and actual maintenance charges should be recovered,
      The cost of planting shade trees, shrubs and hedges In the compounds of residential buildings, of transporting soil In a portion of the compound meant for a garden, If the nature of the existing surface soil renders such transportation necessary, In order to form a garden, of grassing plots, of sinking a well and of providing irrigation channels may be debited to public funds as capital
ANNEXURE — I
      Expenditure on the residence and included in the capital cost thereof for the purpose of assessment of standard rent. The maintenance of shrubs and hedges and of grass plots shall be a liability of the tenant. The salt-proceeds of timber shall be credited to Government.
Tennis court
      Note - if the capital outlay on the	is not known, it may be deter. Garden
mined by the Divisional officer with reference to the market value of similar tennis courts
		In the vicinity, gardens
WATER CHARGES
      Charges for water. Supplied to tenants of Government residential building are assessed as follows
(a) Every official occupying a Government quarter with a separate water connection must pay water charges including the meter rent as fixed by a Municipality, District Board of the Public Health Department. No exception will be granted in such cases.
(b) Where quarters have not been provided with separate water connections and the
occupants have to use outside and technically public taps, no water charges should be recovered from them.
(c) Where water tax as. Distinct from water charges is levied such tax is payable by the tenants.
      Exception—this rule does not apply to menials and other inferior Servants entitled to rent free quarters under item Tb in Appendix 7 to these rules Government Servants exempted in paragraph 3.16 of Punjab Public Works Department Code, Second Edition.
CLASSIFICATION OF RESIDENCES
5.38. Government Buildings intended for occupation as residences arc divided into two classes Class-I—Building which will ordinarily be occupied by Government servants liable to pay the full standard rent subject to the limit of 10 per cent of their emoluments.
Class-II—Buildings from which recovery of the full standard rent is not expected that is buildings which will ordinarily be occupied by Government servants who are entitled to accommodation rent free or at reduced rents under the sanction of competent authority. Note —I. The fact that a building in class I is occasionally occupied by a Government servant, who is entitled to accommodation rent free, or at reduced rents will not justify its removal from Class I to Class II, and similarly a building in class II should not be transferred to Class I whenever it is occupied by a Government servant who may be required to pay the full standard rent (subject to 10 per cent of emoluments), Buildings should be transferred from one class to the other only when there is a permanent change in the conditions under which they will ordinarily be rented transfers should be made the orders of the competent authority and should have in all cases from in all cameo from the commencement of a financial year.
Note-2. When a building in class II is occupied by any person who is not entitled to quarters rent free, the rent to be paid shall be fixed by the competent authority in general in accordance with the rules in this chapter.
       Note-3. In the forest Department Gazetted Government servant, not entitled to rent free accommodation are permitted to occupy quarters meant for free occupation on payment of rent, to be assessed by the Public Works Department under the rules in Ibis chapter.
      (g) General Rules and Instructions regarding allotment of residences.
5.39. The expression ‘allotted’ means —provided” and a Government servant residing in a Government residence before definite allotment may be regarded as having bee allotted that residence, Subject to the provisions to rule 5.45 the incumbent, permanent or temporary, of a post for whose benefit a residence has been constructed, bought or leased is allotted that residence,
      Note - A residence will not be held to have been allotted to a Government servant who shares it by private arrangement with another Government servant to whom it ha been allotted.
5.40. A Government servant shall not be considered to be in occupation of a residence when he- proceeds on leave, unless the competent authority otherwise directs.
5. 41 The period of allotment is determined as follows -
For a non migratory Government servant -
      (a) if the house have been constructed, purchased or tensed for the benefit of. a particular post) it is the period of incumbency, permanent or temporary, of each Government servant in that appointment, except in the case provided for in rule 5 .45
      (b) Otherwise it is for twelve months at a time, but terminates on his transfer form from the place where he is stationed, except in the case of a house in the hills occupied by a Government servant who is permitted to recess in the hills under the rules in force. In this case, the period of allotment is the period of recess enjoyed.
      Exception I— the staff of Punjab Vaccine Institute which is not sup - plied with rent free quarters at Lahore should be considered migratory Government Servants within the meaning of that term as defined the rule 2‘37 or the purpose only of allotment in Government residences at Lahore.
      Exception 2—In the case of the Political Assistant, Dera Ghazi Khan who has two headquarters, vis Dear Ghazi Khan and Fort Munro, the period of allotment for the residence provided for him at Dera Ghazi Khan and is from tat October to 14th April, and that for the residence at Fort Munro from 15th April to 30th September when be stays there.
      5.42. When, during a twelve months tenancy, a Government residence is vacated, owing either to the proceeding appointment having been altered or to his proceeding on leave the residence should, when this is possible and always when occupation of the residence is a condition of the tenure of the appointment, be allotted to his successor in office and rent recovered accordingly.
      When a Government servant takes over charge of and office entitling him to occupy a Government residential building, he should, apart from the usual charges certificate on assumption of office sign a supplementary certificate
      stating that he becomes responsible for the rent of the building from a given date. The relieved Government servant should similarly state that his responsibility for rent has ceased. A copy of this certificate should be sent Lo the Accountant-General and the Executive Engineer concerned to enable the former to exercise a check on the prompt recovery of tent and the latter to complete records, etc. A Government Servant will be held responsible for the rent until such date as he vacates the building and,
(a) after informing the Executive Engineer of the division in which the house is situated of the vacation, hands over the key to him or
(b) in the ease of relief by another official, furnishes the Executive Engineer concerned with the certificate referred to above.
      If an office does not tarry with it any responsibility for the rent of a building, the supplementary certificate will be blank and will be signed with a line drawn across it,
5-43.	(a) The sub-letting of an allotted residence may be permitted under the following
conditions by the Chief engineer, Public Works Department in charge of the building who should be addressed through the head of the tenant‘s department.
(1) That no Government servant who is eligible claims allotment.
(2) that the Government Servant to whom the residence is allotted remains personally
      responsible for the rent and any damage done to the residence beyond fair Wear and tear;
(3) that	Government	does	not	recognize	the	sub-tenancy;
(4) that the rent charged to the sub-tenant does not, except with the sanction of the Government exceed the rent payable to Government by the Government Servant to whom the residence is allotted;
(5) That the sub tenancy be only for the period of allotment.
(b) When the emoluments of a Government Servants whom a residence may be sublet are
greater than those of the Government Servant to whom the residence is allotted the 10 per cent limit will be applied to the higher of the two emoluments for the-period of the sublease.
(c) in such cases of subletting a Government residence when the lessor is not - entitled to rent free quarters of house-rent allowance in lieu but the lessee us so entitled, the rent payable by the lesser should be the rent payable by him, if he had not sub let the residence, or the rent payable by the lessee, if the residence had been allotted to him direct by Government other wise than free of rent, which ever is higher.
(d) When a Government re. lent is sublet and the lessor and the lessee are, or the lessor is, entitled to rent free quarters or house-rent allowance in lieu, the following procedure shall be adopted:-
(i)	When both the lessor and the lessee are entitled to rent free quarters or house-rent
Allowance in lieu, the lessor will pay to Government an amount equivalent to the higher of the two house-rent allowances; and -
      [ANNEXURE]	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[CHAP. III
(i) when the lessor is entitled to rent free quarters or house rent allowance in lieu and the lessee is not so entitled, the lessor will pay to Government an amount equivalent to the house rent allowance admissible to him or to the rent payable by the lease If the house less been allotted to him direct by Government whichever is higher.
      Note—I. In the ease of the quarters in the Rims and Chauburji Gardens Estates, Eaton,
       the Executive Engineer concerned is permitted to approve of the sublets.
Note—2. Whenever a residence cannot be allotted to the Incumbent of the post to winch It Is attached or to a Government servant of the class for which It was constructed. It may be let to a Government servant not holding the particular post or not belonging to that class subject to the conditions that-
      (i)	the allotment cases within two months of a Government servants for whom the
residence Is Intended becoming available at the station as a tenant and (ii) the rent to be recovered under the rules from the temporary tanant is less than of the standard rent of the house.
      A competent authority may relax the provisions of this note ass special case if considered necessary.
5.44. A competent authority may permit a Government Servant to store, at his own risk free of rent, his furniture and other belongings in a house, which has ceased to be allotted to him when both the conditions specified be. low are fulfilled
      (a) If the house is allotted to another Government servant under rule 5.41	(i)(a),
subject to, the condition that the latter does not require the residence and is exempted under rule 5.27 from responsibility for the rent.
      (b) In any case subject to the condition that arrangement cannot be made to the house
under pantograph 310 of the Public Works Department Code, First Edition.
5.45. If a Government Servant to whom a residence is allotted dies, Is dismissed from the service or retires from the service, the allotment to him of the residence shall be cancelled, with effect from one month after the date of his death, dismissal or retirement, as the case may be, or with effect from any date after such death, dismissal or retirement on which the residence is actually vacated, whichever is earlier. En such cases the recovery of rent should be governed by Rule 5.22 (6) supra, i. e. while the original allotment subsists, rent should be charged at the same concessional rate as was being paid by the Government Servant before his death, dismissal or retirement, as the case may be. Similarly the concession of rent free quarters, if it was granted In any	case,	should	continue	during	the	period	of	grace”.
5.46. . In the case of residences under the control of the Forest Department these rules should
be read as if the words —Public Works Department”, —Chief Engineer” and —Executive Engineer” were —Forest Department”, —Chief Conservator of Forests” and —Divisional Forest Officer”, respectively.
III—COMPENSATIONS
5.47. Claims to compensation made by Government Servants will ordinarily be considered only in cases in which 	
(1) The exposure of the property to risk is directly connected with the
      duties on which the Government Servant is employed at the
I
      time, e. g., when the action of an enemy or Insurgents of raiders or wild tribes on the frontier causes the loss of the property of the Government Servant employed in the area effected or ,
(i) the property is lost in consequence of the Go part of the Government Servant to save the Property of Government.
Which was also endangered at the time; or,
     (ii) the property is destroyed under the orders of competent authority
      Provided that the mere fact that, at the time of accident, the Government Servant is technically on duty or is living in Government quarters in which he is forced to reside for the performance of his duties will not be considered as a sufficient ground for the grant of compensation will not be granted to a Government Servant for any loss of his property—
(a) Which is caused by an act of God, e.g., earthquake, flood, etc., or
(b) which is due to an ordinary everyday accident which may occur to citizen, e. g., loss by theft: even when accompanied by violence or the result of a railway accident, fire, etc., or
      (c) Which is due in any way to negligence or other default on the part of the claimant.
Note-I. Claims for compensation will be considered Is respect of animals (I) which are killed, captured, or stolen by the enemy; (2) which are destroyed by order of competent authority to prevent the spread of infections or contagious diseases or (3) when the lose of the animal Is due to exposure or excessive work necessitated by ass In the public service or to an accident directly due	to	such	use.
Note -2.	Compensation is not admissible where, as a matter of ordinary prudence the
owner of the property could and should have incurred It. The question whether the property ought to have been insured is one of fact for the decision of the sanctioning authority. Failure to insure motor oars by their owners, will, however, considered as negligence within the meaning of this rule, and no compensation is admissible for any loss sustained by a Government servant who has omitted to insure his car. The kind of Insurance contemplated in this ease is the ordinary form of Insurance which most 4 motorists take out, the kind which a Government servant who buys a car with an advance torn Government Is required to take out, The ordinary policy provides fully against malicious damage, fire or theft, and it Is not considered necessary that Govern. 4.: meat servants should cover their cars against any but the risks provided against In ordinary	Insurance	policies.
5.48. When any one of the conditions in rule 5.47 is satisfied, a competent authority fly, as an act	of	grace	and	its	discretion,	rant	compensate	ion	.
to the Government Servant up to the then value of the necessaries lost. by him.
Explanation:- The question whether the articles lost are	—necessaries”
within the meaning of this rule will be determined by the sanctioning authority with reference to the Government Servant‘s personal standing and air. Circumstances care should be taken not to admit claims for articles which could clearly be regarded as unessential in the circumstances in which the Government servant was situated when the claim arose or which, an matter of ordinary prudence, Government Servants might have been expected to refrain from taking into such situations.
ANNEXURE -II
TO PARAGRAPH 3.8 OR CHAPTER III OF THE BUILDINGS AND ROADS
DEPARTMENT CODE
Extract of notification No.5 taken from Me Gazette of West Pakistan Services and
General administration Department No.S.O.V 11.7.22.57,
dated 7th September 1957.
5.	Official Residence—(l) the official residence of the Chief Minister shall be furnished by
the Government at a cost not exceeding Rs. 25,000 and that of every other Minister at a cost not exceeding Rs. 20,000. The furniture so provided may be carpets and one refrigerator but no other house holds effects.
      One bed-room in the residence may be air-conditioned.
2. The charges on account of water, electricity, two mates and a farash shall be borne by
the Government.
3. on occupying the official residence a Minister shall forward a list of furniture provided as
aforesaid, under his signature or the signature of any person authorized by him in that behalf, to the Executive Engineer, West Pakistan Public Works Department Incharge of the residence (hereinafter referred to as the Engineer).
      4. (a) A Minister intending to vacate his official residence shall himself of through his private Secretary, inform the Engineer in writing, of the date on which he proposes to vacate the residence and the Engineer shall, on the date so intimated, arrange to take charge of the furniture provided as aforesaid and issue a receipt therefore to the Minister.
(b)	In case of doubt as to the date on which the official residence was vacated, the matter
shall be referred to the vacating Minister whose decision shall be final.
Extract of notification No. 4 taken from the Gaaette of West Pakistan Services and General Administration Department No. S. 0. VII.
Services awl General Administration Department No. S.0.Vin 2-7-57, dated the 19th December 1957.
4. Official residence.—(i) The official residence of a Deputy Minister shall be furnished by
Government at a cost not exceeding ten thousands rupees.
(ii) The charges on account of water, electricity, and two malies for the residence shall be borne by Government.
(iii) On occupying the official residence the Deputy Minister shall forward a list of furniture provided as aforesaid, under his signature or the signature of any person authorized by him in that behalf, to the Executive Engineer Incharge of the residence (hereinafter referred to as the Engineer).
5. (a) A Deputy Minister intending to vacate his official residence shall himself or through his personal Assistant, inform the Engineer in writing, of the date on which he proposes to vacate the residence and the Engineer shall, on the date so intimated, arrange to take charge of the furniture pro a vided as aforesaid and issue a receipt therefore to the Deputy Minister.
      (b) In case of doubt as to the date, on which the official residence was vacated, the matter shall be referred to the vacating Deputy Ministry whose decision will be final.
