CHAPTER II
WORKS
A-CLASSIFICATION OF THE OPERATIONS OF THE
BINDINGS AND ROADS DEPARTMENT.
       21) The operations of the department are divided primarily into two classes —Original Works” and “Repairs”. It is important that the expenditure under each class should be accounted for separately.
       22) (1) The term —original works” indicates new construction whether of entirely new
works or additions and alterations to existing works, except as hereinafter provided; also all repairs to newly purchased or previously abondoned buildings or works required for bringing them into use.
       23) The term —repairs” indicates primarily operations under taken to maintain in proper condition buildups and works in ordinary use. It also includes new works in circumstances indicated	in	clauses	(3)	and	the	‘exception”	to	clause
       (5) below.
       24) When a portion of an existing structure or other & ‘work not being a road, road surface, road bridge, causeway, €embankment, ferry approach, protective or training work in connection with a road, is to be replaced or remodeling .(whether or not the change involves any dismantle and the cost of the change represents. a genuine increase in the value of the property, the work of replacement or remodeling as the case may be, should be classed as —original work”, the cost (which should be estimated if not known) of the portion replace or remodelled being credited to the estimate for —original work” and debited to —repairs. When any disentanglement is involved and serviceable materials are recovered from. the dismantlement, the cost of such materials should be credited to —repairs” in all other cases the whole cost of the new work should be charged to —repairs”
       Note (I) -In the case of the Buildings, the capital value of any part of a building which is abandoned or dismantled without replacement, should be written off the total capital value of the building, in any pro forms account of its cost.
       Note (2)—The expenditure on minor additions and alterations to buildings, up to a certain monetary limit to be fixed by Government may be classed at the discration of the Superintending Engineer as petty works expenditure and debited to repairs; provided that if suck works relate to residences, the coat is taken into a into account in determining the capital cost and in calculating the rent in accordance with the rules issued by Government
       (4)Government has fixed Its. 200 as the monetary limit upto which expenditure on minor additions and alteration, but excluding the purchase of new articles of furniture, for
[2.2)	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE [CHAP. I
residential buildings may be classed as repairs. This is subject to the conditions that the rental value of the building calculated according to Annexure ‘B‘ of this Chapter or the equivalent rules of corresponding Civil Services Rules of other integrating units shall not exceed 10% of the average is intended.
      (5) When an existing portion of a road, road bridge causeway, embankment, ferry approach, protective or training work in connection with a road is to be replaced or remodelled (whether or not the change represents any dismantlement) and the change represents a genuine increase in the value of the property, the whole cost of the replacement or remodeling, as the case may be, should be classed as —original work” and the cost or value of the portion replaced or remodeled	should	not	be	debited	to	—repairs”.
      Exception—Petty and miscellaneous items of work, as hereinafter described, which ordinarily should be classed as —original work” should be debited to repairs up to a limit of Rs. 10,000 in any one case; provided that the work in question do not in the opinion of the Superintending Engineer form part of any comprehensive scheme or project coveted by a work‘s estimate.
    (a) Super-elevation at curves.
(b) Widening the formation or carriageway of a road; widening a dram, or cutting back a lull side to improve vision at curves, provided that the acquisition of land is not involved in any case.
(c) (Improvements of alignments or gradients or changes of grade Irish bridges or dips, carried out at the time of renewing a surface, provided that the question of land is not involved in any case
(d) Improvements to or reconstruction of the surface of a road in some different material where it is desirable to carry out such improvement or reconstruction at the time of renewing a surface.
(e) The construction or reconstruction of road surface in different materials for the purposes of experiment .
(f) The construction or remodeling of bridges, c culverts, causeways, embankment; ferry approach, project or training works in connection with a road.
Chap. -II]	WORKS —ADMINISTRATION APPROVAL 2.3-2.3)
AND TECHNICAL SANCTION
   (g) ) Providing additional guard stones at bad curves and on high banks.
(h) Providing ordinary road direction posts, caution or danger boards and gauge posts for indicating depth of water over causeways and Irish bridges.
(i) Surveys of land in charge of the Buildings and Roads Department for the purpose of verifying encroachments or the execution of minor works, provided that no special Establishment	is	engaged	thereon.
(6) In addition to all repairs and renewals in manner similar to that pre-existing, the following items of road work should be closed as “repairs-
(i) (Ordinary repairs and maintenance including: surface painting and the necessary addition of stone chips, gravel or sand but not including ash phaltic concrete, premix asphalt, macadam, bitumen grout, bitumen, semi grout, mix-in-place cement concrete or cement macadam.
ii)	Special repairs and periodical renewals
(iii)	Petty and maintenance of items of Work, as described in —exception” to clause (5)
above.
      23. The maintenance of a work itself constructed from Capital funds should constitute a charge -against the same Capital head if the charge -for maintenance are incurred on a section of the work the original construction of which has not been completed .
      Maintenance of such of the sections of the Construction Scheme as has been opened for working should, however, be charged to Revenue irrespective of the fact whether the F whole Scheme has been completed or not Any such charge incurred subsequent to completion of the original work should however, go against Revenue.
B—ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL AND TECHNICAL SANCTION
24. For every work proposed to be carried out except petty works and repairs as described in paragraphs 2.18 and 2.20 and repairs for which a lump sum provision has been sanctioned by the Superintending Engineer under paragraphs 2.54, a properly detailed estimate must be prepared for the sanction of competent authority this sanction is known as
2.5-2.6)	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE
The technical eviction to the estimate. (Except where definite provision is made in this Code to the contrary, such sanction can only be accorded by the Government in the Irrigation Communication and Works Department, or where power has been delegated to the Building and Road Department, by officers of that department. Sanction accorded to the construction of a work by any other department of Government is to, be regarded merely as an administrative approval of the work, as define in‘ the following paragraph, and the fact that such approval has been accorded in no way dispenses with the necessity for & further technical sanction, which must be obtained before the construction of the work is commenced
Note—No work technical be started without administrative approval technical sanction and allotment of funds.
      2.5. Before technical sanction is accorded as in para 2.4 above, an —Administrative approval” should be obtained in the manner stated in para 2.6, for every work (excluding repairs and petty work) initiated by, or connected with the requirements of, an Administrative Department. Administrative approval will thus be concurrence and formal acceptance of Administrative Department concerned to the incurring of the proposed expenditure in the Building and Road Department, and in effect will amount to an orders to execute specified works at a stated sum to meet the Administrative requirements of that Department. Such approval should, not, however, be accorded until the processional authorities have intimated that the proposals are structurally sound and that the rough cost estimate is sufficiently correct for the purpose. A similar procedure should be followed in the case of works required to meet the administrative needs of the Buildings and Roads Department and for works at particularly connected with any other branch of the administration both the administrator approval and the technical sanction being accorded, in such cases, by the Government in the Irrigation Communication and Works Department, or officers subordinate to it
Note—(l)— the words —approval” and —sanction — respectively when used in respect of estimates for works bear throughout this code the meaning indicated in this and the foregoing paragraph.
Note. (2)— Administrative approval for repairs and petty works is required in cases definitely prescribed annexure —E” to this chapter.
2.6 An application for administrative approval should be submitted to the authority competent to accord it, accompanied: a preliminary report, a rough cost estimate, preliminary report	information	as	to	the	site	and	other	details
‘1
[Chap. II)	WORKS ADMINISTRATION APPROVAL	3.7
AND TECHNICAL SANCTION
as may be necessary fully to elucidate the proposals and the reasons therefore The approximate estimate and preliminary plans should be obtained from the Buildings and Roads Department If, however, the work is not likely to cost more than Its. 10,000 detailed plans and estimates may be prepared in ‘r the first instance and submitted to the authority competent to accord administrative approval, being returned thereafter to the officer of the Buildings and Roads Department competent a: to accord technical sanction.
1.7 The procedure of the foregoing rule fill also apply to modifications of the proposals originally approved, if likely to necessitate the eventual submission of a revised estimate, to material deviations from the original proposals even though the cost of the same may possibly be covered by savings on other items, and to cases where the detailed estimates, when prepared, exceed the amount administratively approval by more than 5 per cent. In these cases, as also in cases in which it becomes apparent during the execution of the work, that the amount administratively approved will be exceeded by more than 10.25 per cent, or the amount of the technical sanction will be exceeded by more than 5 per cent, owing to increase of rates or other causes, the revised administrative approval of competent authority must be obtained to the increased expenditure without delay and in the case of modifications during construction, without awaiting the preparation of a detailed supplementary or revised estimate. In the case, however, of expenditure from Central Revenues, the rules laid down by the Central Government must be followed.
Note—	This rule does not interfere with the powers of authorities subordinate to the west
Pakistan government to pass excess up to 5 per cent over the amount of original estimates in the case of expenditure form provincial revenues as in serial number 2 of rule 10.8 of departmental Financial Rules (Punjab) reproduced below (or equivalent rules of the corresponding financial rules of the other Integrating Units) even though the amount administratively approved Is thereby exceeded more than 5 per cent.
Serial NoNature of powerTo whom delegatedExtent   1   2   3   4To deal finally with all excess on the amounts of original estimate sanctioned y himself or by a high authoritySuperintending engineer Department Buildings and roadsUp to limit of 5 per cent of the amount of the original estimate or Rs.500 whichever is more
[24—2.11)	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	CHAP-II
Serial NoNature of powerTo whom delegatedExtent   1   2   3   42. to pass finally all excess over the amounts of original estimates sanctioned by himself or by higher authoritiesExecutive EngineerWithin the limit of 5 percent of the sanctioned of estimated provided the amount does not exceed the limit of their powers to sanction estimates technically
 2.8. In the case of works required not for a particular department, but in the interests of the Genera Public, e.g., communications and miscellaneous improvements, preliminary designs and estimates should be submitted for scrutiny by the administrative department concerted before a detailed estimate is prepared for the purpose of technical sanction.
2.9. Administrative approval should be applied for as soon as the necessity for a work is apparent.
       2.10. The Original proposals for all works for which administrative approval, is required under paragraph 2.5 will ordinarily be made by the District or Departmental Officer concerned, who will call upon the Divisional Officer for a rough approximate estimate of cost of the proposed work. The application to the Divisional Officer should be accompanied by an explanation of the requirements and a brief statement of the general nature and extent of the work propose together with information points such as rainfall, soil, water level, quality of sub soil water, direction of prevailing winds, liability of sites to floods, etc.
       2.11. The Divisional Officer will then prepare and furnish to the Departmental Officer concerned, the requisite pencil drawings and rough estimate of cost who, if satisfied with the plans, will pass them on to his official superior for the purpose of‘ obtaining administrative approval, accompanied by dates of rainfall, soil condition, water level, quality of sub soil water, direction of prevailing wind, liability of site to flood etc duly verified at site. If not, and i the difference of opinion is one which cannot be settled after further reference to the Divisional Officer, he will forward the project to the‘ Head of his Department for orders.
       2.12. ‘The	preparation	of	designs	for	buildings	should
be left to the officers of the buildings and Roads Department
Chap -II	works registration by civil officers	2.12-2.10
who in special cases ma obtain the services and advice of the Consulting Architect,
2.13. In cases where administrative approval for a certain sum has been accorded to a project by Government the Read of the Department concerned, should not, of his own authority and without previous reference to Government direct the Buildings and Roads Department to provide for extensive additions and alternations and thus exceed the estimated cost by, more than 5 per cent, necessitating the submission of an application for revised administrative approval
2.14. The powers of Government and of authorities subordinate to it to accord ‘ administrative approval to works are given in Rules 9.3 and 10.4 of Departmental Financial Rules (Punjab) as amended vide letter No.F.I-SOI-F(2)-/59, dated 12th January 1959 from the Government of West Pakistan, Finance Department as reproduced in Annexure A and ‘B‘ respectively to this Chapter.
C—REQUISITION BY CIVIL OFFICERS
I—GENERAL
2.15. Applications for new buildings, and for additions or alterations to existing buildings required for the use of any Department, should he made by the officer of the department a concerned, in communication with the Divisional Officer,- vide also paragraphs 24 etc seq
2.16. The local head of a civil department may call upon the Divisional Officer to report on any proposals for additions or alterations to the buildings in his use and to state roughly the probable cost, but Divisional Officers cannot be required, except by their departmental superiors to prepare the detailed drawings and estimates required for the purpose of technical sanction, of projects which they consider likely to cost a sum greater than that which can be administratively approved by the local ,head of the department concerned, or those, however, small their probable cost, in the necessity for which they do not concur.
2.17. The Divisional Officer must in each case exercise bus, judgment on the demand made, giving all proper weight to the opinion of the officers of the departments concerned; but it is his ‘duty to oppose any application of the funds at disposal to works about the real necessity of which he is not
[2.17—1.19)	PUBLIC WORKS department CODE [Chap. 117
satisfied ,and in every case in which he thinks that he cannot recommended the execution of work called for by a duly constituted authority he should explain his objections, to the officer concerned, and, if he fails to convince him, should refer the matter for the orders of the Superintending Engineer At the same time he should see that such references are not made unnecessarily.
      217. The actual execution of works, asked for by civil officers, must in every case be dependent on the necessary funds being specifically sanctioned by the competent authority No work shall be taken up without Administrative Approval, Technical sanction and funds.
      II—Procedure in regard to original petty works costing Rs. 2,500 or less.
2.18. The following procedure will be adopted in the case of new petty works or additions required by civil authorities the cost of which is not likely to exceed Rs.2,500
(j) The requisition will be made by the officer for whose convenience the work is required, in Buildings and Roads Account Form. No.32 (Petty Works requisition and Account).
(ii) The Divisional Officer, or an assistant or subordinate empowered by him to act in such cases, will record on the requisition his opinion as to what work should be done, and give on the face of the requisition a rough estimate of the probable cost,
(iii) The acceptance by the responsible civil officers of the estimate as sanctioned by the Divisional Officer Will be sufficient authority for the execution of‘ the work; provided that allotment of funds have been made by competent authority.
      (iv) In case of the civil officer not being satisfied with the report of the deputed subordinate of the department he should refer to the Divisional Officer.
Note—The procedure for obtaining administrative approval laid down in pare graph 2.6 win apply in the case of petty works of the Buildings and Roads Department.
      111—Procedure in regard to original works costing more than Ps. 2,500
2.19 If the work be likely to cost more than Rs. 2,500 the following procedure must be adopted.
(i) The work must be applied for or reported necessary by the local head of the department concerned, who‘
will apply for administrative approval to the authority who is competent to accord such approval. The application should be accompanied by such sketch plans, description and explanation of the necessity for the work as may be necessary
(ii) After administrative approval has been accorded by competent authority, detailed design and estimate with a proper report and a specification, must be prepared under the order of the Divisional officer and countersigned by him in token of or approval.
(iii) The detail plans and estimates will then be sent to the local head of the department who applied for the execution of the work, for countersignature. The Divisional Officer will then accord technical sanction if the amount of the estimate falls within the limits of his powers or otherwise forward it to the Superintending Engineer who will, should it exceed	his	powers	of	technical	sanction,	for
warded it to the Regional Officer who will, should it exceed his powers of technical sanction,	forward
it to the Chief Engineer ,and who will, should it exceed his powers of technical sanction, forward it to Government.
   (111) Funds for the work must be allotted before the work can be commenced. -
IV—Procedure in regard to repairs:
220. The procedure to be followed in the case of repairs is as follows:-
      (a) The requisition will be made by the civil officer concerned
(b) The Divisional Officer having satisfied himself as to the necessity for the work shall get the estimate sanctioned and having arranged for the appropriation of funds by competent authority, will then order the immediate execution of the work.
V—Limitation of sanction,
221. Nothing in these rules is to be construed as permission to officers to carry out in portions any group of work or alterations or to make purchases of which the cost in the
2.22	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE [CHAP. II
aggregate would exceed what they are empowered to sanction under the rules D-PREPARATION OF PROJECTS
I—General -
2.22 The papers to be submitted with the project for a work will consist of a report, a specification and a detailed statement of measurements, quantities and rates, with an abstract showing the total estimated cost of each item. These documents together form what is called —the estimate” in the sense of this Code. In the case of a project consisting of several works, the report may be a single document for all the works and likewise the specification; but details of measurements and abstracts may conveniently be prepared for each work, supplemented by a general abstract bringing the whole together. In the case of estimates for —Repairs” or —Maintenance”, only the specification and the detailed statement of measurements and quantities wit the abstracts will ordinarily be required. The report should state in clear terms the object to be gained by the execution of the work estimated for, and explain any peculiarities which require elucidation, including, where necessary, the reasons for the adoption of the estimated project or design in preference to others.
      Whenever the alignment of a new road, drain, pipe-line or sewer, etc., passes close to, or involves any alteration to or diversions of pre-existing railways or canals or interfere with any works or land appertaining to the same, the written acceptance of the authorities in charge of such railways or Irrigation work to the proposals involved by the construction of the new road, drain, pipe-line or sewer, etc., must invariably be obtained before any work thereon is put in hand, and the Buildings and Roads Department authorities concerned should, therefore, obtain the views of the responsible Railway or Irrigation authority in such cases during the survey.
      Enquiry should also be made from the Railway and Canal Administration by the Buildings and Roads Department, s to whether any railway or canal work is proposed which would affect the proposed road, drain, pipe-line or sewer, etc. If after consultation with the Railway or Canal Administration it is found that any additions or alterations to the proposed road, drain, pipe-line or sewer, etc., would be required owing to such work as is contemplated by the Railway or Canal	Administration being
carried out, the buildings and Roads Department authority concerned should make provision for the addition or alteration in the estimates and plans.
[Chap.II	WORKS —PREPARATION OF PROJECTS	2.22
      The report should also discuss the effect that proposed words will have on any existing engineering works, such as Railway embankment, bridges, siphons ,and •culverts and should clearly state whether the concurrence of the requisite Railway, Road or other authority has been obtained. The copy of such concurrence be attached with the estimate.
(1) Estimates should always be prepared in detail as this ensures that the officer who is responsible has given proper consideration to the requirements of the work, and is in possession of as much information as it is possible to obtain beforehand. No lump sum provision should be made in estimates.
Detailed estimate for the construction of a building should contain information as to rates (i) per square foot of plinth‘ area (ii) per cubic foot of cubic contents.
(2) Before any detailed plan and estimate are prepared the administrative approval of Government or the Head of the Department concerned or other. Officers competent to accord such approval should be obtained. As soon as administrative approval has been received from the competent authority, the Divisional Officer will take up the preparation of the detailed estimate, Technical Sanction to which will be accorded by the authority competent in order as that the work	may	be	started,	as	soon	as	funds	are	allotted.
(3) Design for residences costing more than Es. 15,000 should be prepared by Consulting Architect.‘
(4) Consulting Architect should be asked to prepare drawings in the case of all important public buildings costing over us. 75,000. Below this amount all drawings be prepared by Divisional ‘Officer. All plans for alterations to buildings designed in the Consulting Architect’s officer should be prepared in that office irrespective of the cost of the proposed alterations.
(5) The Buildings and Roads Department do net under take the provision of furniture which is purchasable by the Departments requiring it except in the ease of Laboratories where working benches, sinks, taps, etc will be arranged by the Buildings and Roads Department.
(6) Proper co-ordination should exist between different branches of the Buildings and Roads Department and others of other Departments in respect of preparation of plans and
Estimate and execution of works. Divisional Officers, Incharge of buildings, will be responsible to obtain detailed estimate of Public Health and E. and Mt. works from the respective Divisional Officers before sending these for technical sanction.
      (7) Officers of other services,. e.g., Medical and Educational should very closely examine the plans and estimates, for buildings sent to them for approval with regard to the provision made for and the position of, sanitary and electric fittings and other fixtures so that unnecessary changes may be avoided.
      (8) Before detailed estimates for bridges are made, trial pits or borings should be taken for each pier and abutment.
      (9) It is necessary to make a careful preliminary investigation of the sub-soil it order to assertion the exact nature of the strata and determine accurately the suitability of sites for bridges, large buildings, roads,. etc., and the departs to which foundations should be taken, or the crust designed accordingly.
      2.23 To facilitate the preparation of estimates, a schedule of rates of each kind of work commonly executed should be kept up in each Division, and the rates entered in the estimate should generally agree with the schedule rates, but where, from any cause these are not considered sufficient, or in excess, a detailed statement must be given in the report showing the manner in which the rate used in the estimate is arrived at. —There will be Schedule of Rates for each Region sanctioned by the Regional Officer after the prior concurrence of the Chief Engineer, Buildings and Roads Department, West, Pakistan. Every year in July the Regional Officer will examine be rates and revise them where necessary with the prior concurrence of the Chief Engineer. After every- five years a new schedule or rates with all amendments incorporated in it shall be issued by the Regional Engineer with the approval of the Chief Engineer.
      2.24 . Fractions of rupees will be omitted in showing the total cost of each kind of work in the abstract of the estimate and miscellaneous petty works may be entered without measurements, the estimated cost along being given as a lump sum.
      2.25 The abstract of the estimate may, under instructions of the Superintending Engineer, be framed to show merely the quantity and cost of each completed item or work,
[Chap. II	WORKS -PREPARATION OF PROJECTS	2.28
e.g., brickwork, or it may be framed to show the cost of labour and materials separately. If it is proposed to contract for a completed item of work such as masonry, etc., than the first mentioned from of abstract will suffice, if it is intended to purchase or procure material and to employ labour for construction separately, then the second form of abstract will admit of a closer, easier and earlier check on the outlay and it will, therefore, be preferable.
      Note- When the number of sub heads of en estimate is large, it will be found convenient to assign a number to each sub-head and to prefix this number to the name of the sub-head, wherever it is used on vouchers, works abstract, registers of works or other accounts. The whole cost should be abstracted in general abstract.
      2-26. (1) Provision should be made in the estimate for all incidental expenditure which can be foreseen, such as cost of land, hutments for workmen, sheds for stores, hiring of godowons Dewatering and pumping arrangements, etc., while in addition .provision of 3 per cent	and	5	per	cent	for	major
-and minor works respectively on the estimated cost of works should be made to cover contingencies which cannot be foreseen.
      (2) The provision for contingencies may be diverted by the Superintending Engineers and Divisional Officers to any new work or repair not provided for in the estimate, to the extent shown in rule 10-5 of the Department Financial Rules (Punjab) reproduced in Annexure P. to this Chapter, (or equivalent rules of the corresponding Financial Rules of other -integrating units).
      (3) To cover the, cost of petty work) establishment employed on works under paragraph 1.131 of this Code, a provision of 2 per cent may be made in all estimates on the estimated cost of works in which it is deemed necessary to employ such establishment. In the case of intramural drainage, sewage and water-supply works, however, provision for —petty establishment —may be made‘ up to 3 per cent of the estimated cost. These percentages cannot be exceeded without the previous approval of Government (the consent of Finance Department is not presumed to the exercise of power it: under this rule). It should be understood that under the operations of this rule, work rates for such estimates should be framed so as to exclude all charges for supervision.
       In case of petty works where this provision of 2 per cent be considered inadequate, provision of work-charged establishment may be detailed.
[2. 27—2. 32	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	CHAP-II
2.27 After a Major Estimate has been sanctioned, it may be decided to make a change in the method originally contemplated for the execution of the work In such a case, the original abstract should be recast.
      The details of cost and quantities already approved by competent authority should be rearranged and the revised abstract should be approved by the competent authority and thereafter treated as the sanctioned abstract of the estimate for all account purposes.
2.28 If the number of sub-heads in the working estimate for a work or sub-work is large, it is permissible to break up the estimate into two‘ or more parts, and to treat each part as a sub-work for the purposes of accounts but no part of an estimate can be separated from the rest, if any contract for the execution of work connected with it covers also work connected with the other parts. It is advisable to adopt this course if one or more parts of a work or sub-work are completely executed long in advance of the others and no useful purpose will be served by keeping	open	the	accounts	of	the	completed	parts.
Note—the rules regulating the inclusion in estimates of the approximate cast Establishment and Tools end plants are given in Sub paragraph 2 and 3 of Appendix 5 of West Pakistan Buildings and	Roads	Department	Account	Code.
2.29 The percentage rates for departmental charges carried out for other Government Departments, Local Bodies, etc., would be as prescribed by Government from time to time.
2.30 . Estimates for works on which it is intended to use prison labour will, as in the ease of free labour, provide for the full market value of the work to be done, but a note of the reduction, if any, to be effected thereby should be made at the foot of the abstract of the estimate.
2.31 . In framing estimates it will be necessary, when- ever it has been arranged to obtain stock or tools and plant for a work from another Department or Division, to ascertain from that Department or Division the value of such materials and, if the rules require the transfer to be effected free of charge, to deduct this value at the foot from, the total of the estimate.
11—Original Works.
(a) Civil Buildings
a.32. The site of every public building should be definitely settled before the detailed designs and estimates are pre-
prepared by a Committee consisting of the following -
      (1) Deputy committee a Chairman.,
      (2) Representative of the department concerned.
      (3) District Medical Officer.
      (4) Executive Engineer.
The Executive Engineer will convene the meeting and propose the site.
a.33. In the case of works or buildings which are intended to be erected in the neighborhood of any forb or cantonment the matter should, in the first instance, be referred to the local officer of the Military Engineering Services for an expression, of his opinion from a military point of view, and then submitted to. the Central Government in the Defense Department for concurrence, and when such concurrence has been obtained, no deviation is permissible without previous	reference	to	that	authority.
a.34. The rules regarding zones of Defensive Works will be found in the Regulations for the Military Engineer Services and the Regulations for the Army in Pakistan. Special attention is drawn to the restrictions on the construction of buildings, alteration of ground level and collection of materials in such zones; and to the prohibition of the transfer of state land in zones without the sanction of the Central Government.
a.35. Powder magazines, and all buildings which, from their height or exposed situation, are likely to be struck by lightning, should be provided with lightning conductors according to the specification detailed in the West Pakistan Public ‘.Works Department Specifications. All conductors and their connections with the earth should be inspected and tested periodically by the Buildings and Roads Department officers under the —Rules for Testing Lightning Conductors and Lightning Conductor —Earths” in Government Building as per Appendix III Specification III(Buildings and —Roads), a report of each such ‘inspection beings submitted to the Superintending Engineer.
(b) Roads.
b.32. Projects for roads when submitted for sanction should be accompanied by the following documents: - (i) Report detailing history design; scope, rates, and specifications cost and mode of execution, etc
      (ii) Detailed measurements and abstract of ‘cost.
      (iii) Index map, scale 1” = 1 mile.
      (iv) Plans scale 12” = 1 mile.
Longitudinal and cross or transverse sections, scale horizontal, 440‘ = 1” and vertical 20‘ = 1”.
(v) Detailed drawings of all engineering works such as
bridges, etc., scale 10‘ or 8‘=l” for plan and estimate and 5‘ or 4‘ = 1” for details.
      (vi) Detailed drawings, as per scale given in (v) above of all structures-dwellings or inspection bungalow and quarters for subordinates and gangs.
      (Should it be necessary to submit the\ project to the government of Pakistan, it should be accompanied by documents
i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi) above. It should le either duplicates or copies as they are required for purpose bf record by the Government of Pakistan and will not be returned with the notes on the subject.)
2 37. Estimates for new roads should include the cost of all dwelling and inspection houses intended to be built along it for the accommodation of subordinates and others.
      (2) Estimate for bridges must be accompanied by adequate calculations and the report should show, how the stream has been crossed hither to, why it is proposed to bridge it, the kind and amount of traffic to be accommodated, whether the street has been bridged before, if so a description of it should be given and the cause of its failure if such occurred ,the kind of bridge now proposed, reasons for water way allowed, the height or road way above high flood level and lead way, if any allowed for boats, the nature and size of snags, if any, the drainage of the stream whether fiat or hilly, velocity of current in rain and dry weather, if the stream is liable to sudden flood, if it is used for floating out timber and if so how, nature of bed and banks, if banks are liable to erosion, if stream is navigated and if so by what type of vessel, highest flood level maximum and normal, and the nature of materials available within reasonable distance.
      (3) In addition to the actual bridge plan, the following plan should accompany an estimate for a new bridge-A plan of the stream for one mile above and below the proposed crossing, with connected cross section at very quarter of a mile and oftener if necessary; cross section of stream at the .
[Chap. II	WORKS -PREPARATION OF PROJECTS F	(2.38—2.40
Proposed bridge site showing the general level of country on either bank as well as that of the road approaches the various water level; depth at which, good foundation is available and its nature.
2 .38. It must be regarded as a fundamental rule that without the previous sanction of Government no main artery of communication, such as a trunk road, may be abandoned or allowed to fall out of repairs. All proposals for the removal of bridges or ferries must invariably be submitted for the consideration and orders of Government.
Note-In respect of roads, bridges, etc declared to be of military importance by the Defence Department, all proposals for their removal and abandonment should be referred to the Central Government for orders.
(c) Town water-supply project;
            2.39. (1) For Town Water-Supply Projects, the nature and quantity of the existing supply should be given, and the reasons necessitating an improved supply; the possible sources of an additional supply and the reasons for preferring the scheme submitted; the area and number of people and approximate number of animals, if possible, to be supplied, as well as the estimated daily allowance in gallons for each person or animal, etc., the quality of the water, whether requiring filtration or not.
      (2) The report should be accompanied by an index map showing the lines of main and distributary piping, and plans of all works, including filters, service reservoirs, settling tanks, etc. If pumping is contemplated, the annual cost of working the pumps should be estimated; the mode of calculating dimensions of pipes, etc., and the formula used should form one of the appendices.
(d) Open capital account expenditure.
       2.40. It is necessary to make provision for expenditure debatable to capital after the closing of the construction estimate of a project. The following rules govern the subject:-
(i) No expenditure may be incurred except under competent authority and within the budget provision
(ii)	Works	which	it may be	necessary to	construct	after
the closing of the construction estimate of the project will be divided into two classes
       (1) Works which are necessary for the full development of the project, but which are not in them selves directly remunerative.
(2.40	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[Chap. II
      (Examples—Drainage cuts, protective embankments, over bridges, inspection houses, retaining walls, bird guards, roads and guard wires, etc)
      (2) Works which are directly remunerative in them- selves
      (Examples—Ferries and toll bridges, etc.)
      (iii) The Audit Officer will be responsible that no expenditure is incurred after the date of the closure of the construction estimate without the approval of competent authority when the amount of the sanctioned project has been exceeded, and that all expenditure incurred against the open capital account is covered by proper detailed estimates sanctioned by competent authority.
(iv) The 30th June will invariably be fixed as the date for the completion of a work sanctioned against the Open Capital Account and the sanction to the work, unless extend will lapse on that date.
(v) Every Endeavour should be made to complete a work within the period prescribed for its completion. By &completion is meant absolute completion so that no further expenditure remains to be recorded.
      The Accountant shall be responsible that the date fixed for completion of the work is entered in red ink at the top of the folio set apart for ,the, work in the resister of works. He should bring to the notice of the Divisional Officer, three months before the date fixed for their completion, or at an earlier date, when the accounts show that the progress of a work is very slow, all open capital work in progress, with a view to instructions being issued to Sub- Divisional or other officers concerned to ensure not only the completion of the works, but the discharge of all liabilities before the currency of the sanction expires. In the case of payments of condensation for land taken up, the Accountant should frequently remind the Divisional Officer to address the Civil Officers concerned, urging the necessity for payments being made during the currency of the sanction. The responsibility for taking action will rest with the Divisional Officers, but Accountants will assist them in this respect by reminding., sufficiently early of the necessity for prompt action in each case.
(vi) When, however, it is evident that a work cannot be completed within the period assigned, the necessary application.
Chap. II	WORKS —PREPARATION OP PROJECTS	2.41
application for postponing the date of completion should invariably be made before the expiry of the current sanction, and should be accompanied by a full explanation of the causes\which have delayed the completion of the work. On the 2nd April, each Divisional Officer. should submit to the Superintending Engineer a statement showing the names and state of all estimates, the date for the completion of which has been fixed for the 30th June next, with re mark stating whether the works will be completed by the prescribed date or not and with such explanations as may be necessary to enable that, officer to sanction the extension of such date, if necessary.
(vii) Completion reports on works completed by the 20th June should be submitted as soon as after that date as possible so that they shall reach the Chief Engineer, West Pakistan after verification by ‘the Director Audit and Accounts (Works), West Pakistan by the 1st October following at least.
Note—(1) It has been decided by the West Pakistan Government that with effect from the Financial Year 1039-60 the expenditure on all new Major Work costing up to Rs. One lace would be debited to Revenue under the head 50-Civil Works‘, and those costing more than the said limit would be debatable to the Capital head “81-Capital Account of Civil Works outside the Revenue Account”.
Authority-.Joint Secretary to Government of West Pakistan, Finance Department letter No. 803- B.VII-59, dated 6th July 195.
Note (2)It has also been decided that the Suspense transactions of the Buildings and Roads Department should be booked under the Major Head “8I-Capital Account of Civil Works outside the Revenue Account” Instead of the Major Head 50-Civil Works excluding Establishment Charges” with effect from the same year.
(Authority —Deputy Secretary (Budget) to Government of Woes Pakistan Finance Department letter No. 54-B-VII-58, dated 13th November.
111—Repairs.
(a) General
2-41. Repairs, are ordinarily of three kinds:-
(i) Those which as a matter of routine are carried out every year and which are usually of the same quantity from time to time, such as the whitewashing of a building or surface painting of a road or painting of water pipes or tanks. These are known as annual Maintenance and Repair.
(ii) Those which are not done every year but are due after 4 years and are known as Quadrennial
2.42-2.45	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	Chap. II
      repairs this includes such items as painting of doors, windows and wood work in roof.
 (iii) Such occasional special repairs as become necessary from time to time, and which may have to be carried out between times of periodical repairs like renewal of roof, renewal of goor, etc.
      2.42. Except in the cases contemplated in paragraph 2.54 provision for repairs of the first two kinds should be made in annual estimates including quadrennial repairs which should be included in every forth year‘s annual estimate, and for the third kind in separate estimates, as occasions may require, but provision for all should be made in the budget, so far as they can be foreseen, and a reserve should also be provided in the budget to meet unforeseen expenditure on repairs, since the powers of Superintending Engineers to sanction repairs are limited to the budget grants at their disposal.
      243. A separate estimate should be prepared for the maintenance of each work, or of each class of building in each district or of a portion of a work or group of works as detailed in the Budget. Attention to this point is necessary, for in the principal accounts, the total outlay against each estimate being alone posted, it is only by recording the outlay year after year on the maintenance of each particular set of buildings or work that useful comparisons can be made.
      2.44. June is to be considered as the last month of the working year for the purpose of annual maintenance estimates, each annual repair estimate should include the whole expenditure which it is anticipated will be incurred during the working year on the maintenance of the work concerned.
      2.45. Repairs estimates should, like those for original works, provide for the removal of all rubbish which may have accumulated, filling in unsightly pits, etc., round the buildings, all works establishment employed specially on the work, and under separate sub-heads, all watchmen sanctioned by competent authority for the care of vacant buildings, guarding work, etc.
      In estimates for repairs no provision is needed f or general and administrative charges or for Tools and Plant.
Chpa_11	WORKS -PREPARATION OF PROJECTS	2.46.2.51
246. The sanction to an annual repair estimate lapses on the last day of the working year,-vide paragraph 2.44.
      Note —See Paragraph 5.7 (iii)
2. 47. Estimates for special repairs remain current till ‘completion of the repairs in the same manner as estimates for original works.
2.48. In cases of urgency, the Superintending Engineer may authorize the commencement of special repairs in anticipation of the formal sanction to the detailed estimate, but in such cases a preliminary rough estimate should be sanctified by him. Such sanction will not, however, be operative unless funds for the repairs are properly appropriated by competent authority. The Divisional Officer will be responsible that a proper detailed estimate is submitted at the earliest possible date and then the estimate sanctioned by the competent authority within one month, at the latest.
      For action to be taken in cases of extreme urgency see paragraph 2.82.
2.49. In the case of all descriptions of works, for the renewal of which any specific period of time has been fixed, the estimate for its repair should show the date when such item of work was last executed.
(ii) Special rules,
2.50. To facilitate the preparation of estimates for annual and Quadrennial repairs a standard measurement book should be kept in the office of each Divisional Officer, showing the detailed measurements of each kind f work which is usually subject to renewal in each work under his charge.
2.51. Annual and periodical repairs to buildings should be provided for as a percentage on the capital cost, of the building on which the standard rent is based, which will be held to include provision for all ordinary repairs likely to be needed every year.
      (2) Special repairs should be provided for by special estimates prepared when necessary.
      (3) Annual repairs should be provided for at the rates mentioned below: -
3.52- 2.54	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[CHAP. II
When acquired or constructed through the agency of the Buildings and roads Department-
Class of buildingsDescriptionAssessable percentage on the capital cost of the buildings escalading value of siteaThose in good order built by the public works department in a semi permanent style i.e with pucca foundations kutach pucca put side walls lime pointed pucca parapets and chimeyes terraced jack arch or wooden karri proof over steel girdersSpecial repairs	ordinary repairs
1 to 3bThose of similar style of construction but not in good condtion either built by the public works Department	or purchase
from private individuals and added to or altered after purchase3 to 5cTemporary buildings i.e those with walls of mud masonry with thatched or tilled roof5 to 7
       A charge of 4^ per cent of the capital cost will be made in addition to the above to cover the maintenance of water- supply, sanitary and electric installations, where such exist.
       Note—With reference to the minimum and maximum rates fixed above for annual ordinary repairs, Superintending Engineers of the Buildings and Roads Department should arrange to communicate to the Director Audit and Accounts (work such per. e outages as are actually applied in fixing the standard rent in Mach individual case, so that the rents fixed may be susceptible of scrutiny.
       2.52. The estimate when prepares will be submitted to the officer occupying such building, for countersignature in token of all repairs known to be required having been provided for. In the case of buildings occupied by officers of the Civil Department, occasional repairs not provided for in the annual estimate will be executed on requisitions sanctioned under paragraph 2.20.
       2.53. Where municipal or other taxes on public buildings are payable by Government, provision for such	taxes should	be made in the annual	repair estimate.
       2.54. In the case of any building, the cost of the ordinary annual repairs (excluding municipal taxes) to which is Tess than Rs. 2,500, the Superintending Engineer may pres /
WORKS—CONTRACTS AND WORK 2.55-2.56 ORDERS
Prescribe, subject to revision from time to time, a lump sum limited to Rs. 2,500 (plus the amount of the municipal taxes if any, payable by Government under paragraph 3.15 of this Code) to cover the cost of maintenance, and within this amount expenditure will be permissible without any detailed estimate being prepared. Such lump sum should be framed after consideration of the cost of maintenance in the past and, in the case of residential buildings, should further be limited to the amount included for this purpose in the rent assessment. If in any working year the estimated cost of maintenance is more than the permissible limit given above, or if the lump sum sanctioned by the Superintending Engineer is exceeded a detailed estimate must be prepared in accordance with the ordinary rules and sanctioned by competent authority. On sanction being accorded to such am estimate the sanction of the Superintending Engineer to the lump sum provision will automatically be superseded for the working year in question.
      Note- The sanction accorded to the lump um provision referred to in this paragraph shell be held to be a sanction to an estimate for the same amount for all purposes of this code.
       (2) Every annual repair estimate which is intended to. provide for all repairs which must be carried out yearly, such as whitewashing, renewing mud roofs, etc., as also lot periodical and petty (including quadrennial and occasional). repairs, i.e.., repairs that are necessary from tithe to time to keep the building or road up to a proper state of presentation, should be scrutinsed and passed by the Superintending Engineer and stereotyped. Having once been stereotyped, am annual repair estimate should not be submitted to the Superintending Engineer with application for funds.
2.55. In the case of alterations to a building when the cost is partly debatable to original works and partly to repairs. j in accordance with paragraph 22 of this Code, only one estimate should be prepared with an abstract showing separately the amounts debatable to original works and repairs which should be accounted for wider each head as incurred.
E—CONTRACTS AND Won ORDERS
I-General.
2.56. The recognized system of carrying out work, otherwise than by the employment of daily labour, are —Piece work”
2.57. 2-58	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	Chap-11
and —Contract work”. For explanation of the term —Piece work” see paragraph 2.67 following.
The term —Contract’, as used in this Code, does not include agreements for the execution of work by piece work (see paragraph 2.67) nor does it include mere ordinary purchases of materials or stores . All other work, done under agreement, is termed —Contract work”, and in the agreements for such work, which should invariably be in writing, there should generally be a stipulation as to the quantity of work to be done and the time within which it is to be completed
2.58. —Contracts” may be of three kinds, viz, lump sum, scheduled and a combination of these two.
      In a lump sum contract the contractor engages to execute the work with all its contingencies for a fixed sum.
Scheduled contracts are those in which the ‘undertakes to execute the work at fixed rates, the to receive depending on the quantities and kind of or material supplied.
      Percentage rate contracts are those in which the con- tractor undertakes to execute the work at a fixed percentage above or below the rates exhibited, the sum he is to receive depending on the quantities and kind of work done or material supplied.
      The third kind of contract is a combination of both these. Thus a fixed sum is proposed for the completion of the work as specified and a schedule of rate is agreed upon by which to regulate the price to be paid or to be deducted for additions or alterations.
11—CONTRACT DOCUMENT.
2.59. Before a work is given out on contract, the Divisional Officer must prepare —contract documents” to include:-
1st—A complete set of drawings showing the general
dimensions of the proposed work, and so far as
necessary, detail of the various parts.
2nd—A complete specification of the work to be done and of the materials to be used, unless reference can be made to some standard specification.
3rd—A schedule of the quantities of the various descriptions of work.
4th-A set of —conditions of contract —to be complied with by the person whose tender may be accepted.
WORKS -CONTRACTS AND WORK 2.59-2.61 ORDERS
      2.60. If the amount of the tender is likely to be beyond the Divisional Officer‘s power of acceptance, or to be of an unusual character, he should before publicly inviting tenders, submit the contract documents to the Superintending Engineer for his approval or remarks together with a copy of the proposed advertisement for tenders, and the form in which tenders are to be submitted. Should the tender be of a‘ very special nature, or the amount of it is likely to exceed, the Superintending Engineer‘s power of acceptance, that officer should, in like manner, submit the contract documents to the Regional Officer for approval and advice, who will in turn refer the	matter	to	the	Chief	Engineer	if	necessary
      2.61. In works of great magnitude‘ the contract deed should be specially prepared by the Government Law Officers, but for ordinary contracts, usual stereotyped forms will generally suffice-
      2.62. (1) In giving out works on contracts, tenders, which should always be sealed, should invariably be invited in the most open and public manner possible, whether by advertisement in the Government Gazette or local newspapers, or by notice in English and the vernacular posted in public places, after the estimate has been technically sanctioned and the contract documents have been approved by an authority not lower than that empowered to accept the tender. The tenders should have free access to the contract documents. The notice should in all cases state -
1st - The place where and the time when the contract documents can be seen, and the blank forms of tender obtained, also the amount, if any, to be paid for such forms of tender -
      2nd-	The place where, the date and, the, time when tenders are to be submitted and are
to be opened. The limit of notice after let advertisement should be (a) works costing more than Rs.50,000 one month‘s notice (b) 15 days notice in case of works costing Rs. 20,0000 and over up to Rs.50,0000 (c) 10 days notice for all other works . But if urgency of work does not permit of the full time Superintending Engineer‘s approval to reduction of notice of notice be taken
3rd-	The amount of earnest money to accompany the tender, and the amount and
nature of the security deposit required in the case of the accepted tender.
4th	With whom, or what authority, the acceptance of the tender will rest.
      (2) Authority should always be reserved to reject any or all of the tenders received without the assignment of a reason, and this should be expressly stated in the advertisement.
      (3) 2 At the advertised time and place, all tenders received for the same contract should be opened by the Divisional Officer or other officer in person, in the presence of such of the intending contractors or their agents as may choose to attend. The Divisional Head Clerk and Divisional Accountant should also be present when tenders are being opened. No tender should be accepted from any person directly or indirectly connected with the public service. Such a declaration should be obtained from the tenders before opening the tenders. This ruling does not apply to Government pensioners, see paragraph 1.148.
      (4) A wooden box locked or pad locked should be kept in Divisional Offices for receiving tenders. The key of the box should remain in possession of the officer who opens the tenders. The box should be opened in his office as above and not at his residence.
2) 63. _No tender for the execution of works of any description should be received unless accompanied by a treasury challan for the deposit of cash as earnest money, to the extent which has been notified as necessary by the officer inviting tenders.
3) 64. The amount of earnest money to be deposited should be sufficiently large to be a security against loss in case of the contractor failing to start work within the appointed time after the acceptance of his tender, or until the sums due to him from a sufficient guarantee, as the case May be
Note (1)-Earnest money deposits made by contractors of the Buildings and Roads Department are creditable to civil deposits Revenue Deposits see deposit may be made by contractors at Sub divisional or District treasuries. No previous authority of a departmental officer is necessary but the depositor must state the designation of the officer in whose favour he makes the deposit and that designation must be stated on the receipt given by the treasury.
Nete (2) -	As an exception to this rule Government may authorize Divisional officer not to
pass through the Cash Book earnest money received from and returned to contractors on the same day the tenders are opened provided that the constrictors concerned are required to give a stamped receipt for the money in the Register to tenders maintained in the Divisional office and that the register is to that extent treated as a subsidiary cash book and consequently as an accounts form
WORKS-CONTRACTS AND WORKS
ORDERS
4) 65. Usually the lowest tender should be accepted, un- less there be some objection to the capability of the contractors, the security offered by him, or his execution of former work. Subject to the provision of clauses 3 to 4 the acceptance or rejection of tenders is left entirely to the discretion of the officer to whom the duty is entrusted, and no explanation can be demanded of the cause of the rejection of his offer by any person making a tender. Such an explanation may be	called	for	by	superior	authority,	if considered	necessary.
5) )	In cases where a tender other than the lowest tender‘ is selected for acceptance, reasons
should be recorded confidentially in the tender register.
6) )	Sub-Divisional and Divisional Officer will, in addition to taking action under clause
(2) above, inform their in- mediate superior whenever they accept a tendered rate for use in work orders other than the lowest tender; and the superior officer may, at his discretion, take action to accept the lowest rate tendered.
7) ) When the tender system is used in connection with, a contract (as opposed to its use in deciding work order rates), a tender other than the lowest may only be accepted after obtaining the approval of the officer immediately superior r the one who normally under the rules would be competent to accept the tender.
I V—Security for performance of contracts.
2.66. Security should in all cases be taken for the due‘ fulfillment of a contract. This security may be: -
(a) The earnest money deposited under paragraph
(b) A deduction of 10 per cent from the monthly payments to be made on account of work done.
V—Provision in contract for imported stores.
1.1. In framing. Contract of any description, care should be taken to retain in the hands of Government the supply of imported materials, if required to any considerable extent, and to arrange the terms accordingly. Such stores should either be supplied from the existing Government stock or be obtained in the ordinary course as per rules of store purchasing office of West Pakistan Government.
“VI- Enforcement of terms of contract.
2.68. Engineers and their subordinates are responsible that the terms of contracts are strictly enforced, and that no act is done tending to nullify or vitiate a contract. All con- tract deeds must be executed on one or other of the standard forms, but they may be modified to suit local requirements after consultation with the legal advisers of the West Pakistan Government. All agreements or security bonds entered into with the Buildings and Roads Department by contractors for the execution of work or for securing the due performance of contracts are exempt from stamp duty. Registration fees on all contracts for manufacture and supply of bricks must be paid by the contractor as he is required to register the tender.
      (2 When according to the terms of the contract, a Super- intending Engineer acts as an arbitrator, he should, in giving an award, keep in view the instructions contained in Appendix VI.
VII—Officers Empowered to Execute Contracts.
      2.69. No authority lower than an officer in charge of a Division can accept any tender or make a contract for public works. The different classes of deeds, contracts and other instruments which may be executed by this Department and the authorities empowered to execute them are detailed in Appendix I, while the financial limits up to which the authorities are authorized to determine the terms of deeds, are set-forth in Annexure B of this chapter.
      2.70. It is not the intention to prevent the officers empowered in this respect from giving out to different contractor‘s t number of contracts relating to one work, even though such work may be estimated to cost more than the amount up to which they are empowered to accept tenders. But no individual contractor may receive a contract amounting to more than this sum nor, if he received one contract, may he receive a. second in connection with the same work or estimate while the first is still in force, if the sum of the contracts exceeds the power of acceptance	of‘	the	authority	concerned.
      Note—It should be clearly understood that the splitting up of a work at the time of ceiling for tenders is a measure which must be justified by circumstances; ad must be in the Interests of the work. It must not be resorted to with view to ending the operation of any proscribed limit.
      2.71. In case in which departures from the rules contained in this section of this Chapter are unavoidable, such departures may be permitted or condoned, as the case may be
[Chap. II	WORKS CONTRACTS AND WORK ORDERS	2.72
      Subject to the following restrictions; and with the concurrence of the finance Department in each case: -
      (i) No officer may enter into a contract which he is not empowered to enter.
      (ii) No officer may enter into a contract which infringes the rule in paragraph 210.
(iii) No officer may accept any contract for a work until an assurance has been received from the authority competent to provide funds for the same, that such funds will be allotted before the liability matures (ride paragraph 2-82 (1)).
(iv) The provision of paragraph 2-67 may not be waived where the purchase of imported materials contravenes the provisions of the, Store Rules.
Note—Restrictions I and II above do not apply to piece work agreements which are not contracts within the meaning of this code -vide paragraph 2.58.
VIII- Piece Work.
272 (1) Works are commonly carried out at —piece work” the agreements for which should be in the form of —work orders” on Stereo Buildings and Roads Form No. 34. Such agreements are not —contracts” and should contain only a description of the work to be done and the rate to be paid for it, without any reference to the total quantity to be executed or to the time within which it is to‘ be executed. The Government or the contractor may at any time terminate such agreement by notice in writing without claim to	compensation	by	the	other	party‘.
      A specification of the work to be done may be issued with the work order, but must contain no reference to quantity or time.
(2) In the Buildings and Roads Department work orders are used for all works and repairs estimated to cost not more than Its 10,000 up to which limit the Divisional Officers are competent to issue work order. The Sub-Divisional officer may issue work orders for works and repairs estimated to cost not more than Rs. 4,000
(3) Work order shall be issued after calling quotations in a public manner for which notices as under should be given:-
(i) For work upto Rs. 5,000 at least 7 days notice.
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE [Chap.
(ii) For work from 5,000 to 10,000 at least 2 weeks notice.
(4) Quotation is to be submitted in a sealed cover and shall be entered in the quotation register and opened in the presence of the contractors. The Divisional Head Clerk and Divisional Accountant should also be present when quotations are being opened in the Divisional Office.
(5) The work shall be given to lowest quotationer always and in case where work is to be allotted to any one other than the lowest quotationer permission from S. E. shall be taken after stating reasons for the same and this must be made available to audit.
F—SALE AND ACQUISITION OF LAND
I—Sale of Government Land and Immovable Property.
2.73. All land, the property of Government, should ordinarily be sold through the Revenue Department. But when Buildings are sold, the sites attached to them should be sold by the Buildings and Roads Department.
      2.74. When any immovable public property is made over to a local authority for public, religious, educational or any other purpose, the grant should be made expressly on the conditions, in addition to. any others that may be settled, that the property shall be liable to be resumed by Government if used for other than the specific purposes for which it is granted and that, should the property be at any time resumed by Government, the compensation payable therefore shall in no case exceed the amount (if any) paid to Government for the grant, together with the cost or their present value, whichever may be less, of any buildings erected or other work executed on the land by the local authority.
II-Acquisition of land
(a) General
2.75. When land is required for public purposes, the officer of the Buildings and ‘Roads Department should, in the first instance, consult the Collector of the district, and obtain from him the fullest possible information as to the probable cost of the land, per acre or otherwise, together with the value of buildings, etc, situated on the property, for which compensation will have to be paid. Upon the information thus obtained an estimate should be framed by the buildings and
WORKS -SALE AND ACQUISITION OF LAND	[2.76
OF‘ LARD
Roads Department Officer and submitted for sanction, either separately or duly incorporated in the estimate of work for which land is required.
2.76. where, however, the following conditions are fulfilled, consultation with the Collector of the district may be dispensed with and the cost of land may for estimating purposes be based on the Divisional Officer‘s experience and local enquiry
(i) that the amount of the sub-head for land does not exceed Rs. 5,000 and
(ii) that the amount of: the sub-head for land does not exceed 5 per cent of the total amount of the estimate (works only)
      Note—No religious place of worship, shrine tomb graveyard or any in movable property attached to any such Institution and the boundaries of which care continuous with the site of the same, shall be acquired compulsorily under the Land acquisition Act if any other immovable property attached to any such institution or any such property be required, the matter should be referred to the West Pakistan government before any action Is taken in the matter.
       2.76. When sanction to an estimate, framed as above directed, has been obtained, the Divisional Officer or other Buildings and Roads Department Officer concerned should commit the matter to the Revenue Officer who will take the necessary preliminary action for the appropriation of the land under the Land Acquisition Act; or for its acquisition by private negotiation, subject to the instructions of the. Board of Revenue as contained in Financial Commissioner‘s Standing Order No, 28 (Land Acquisition). These instructions provide that if the estimate originally framed and sanctioned is likely when the land comes to be acquired, to be materially exceeded, the Land Acquisition Officer making the ,award should give sufficient notice to the Buildings and Roads Department Officers ;and should take into consideration any representation which such officer may make, whether it is made orally or by letter. More especially he should, before making the award, allow such an officer an opportunity of producing in person or by agent and of producing evidence as to the value of the land. When such a reference is made, the Buildings and. Roads department Officer should, if it is found it possible to obtain the land required without materially exceeding the estimate, or to obtain some other plot of land in lieu of that originally proposed, submit a revised estimate for sanction. When possession has once been taken under Section 16 or 17 of the
[2.77-2.80	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[Chap. II
Act, Government cannot withdraw from the acquisition of the land. In cases; therefore, where the amount claimed in pursuance of a notice under the Act is largely in excess of the amount subsequently awarded by the Collector, and the acquisition of the land is not absolutely necessary, possession should not be taken ‘Without a reference to the authority sanctioning the work until he Lime within which an application for a reference to the Court must be made under Section 18 of the Act has a lapsed without suck application being made.
2.77. The arrangements between the officers of the department and the Land Acquisition Officer to determine what land to take up, should, where practicable, be made without divulging the intention of the Government, so as to admit of a private bargain being, if possible, made before	any	enhancement	of	prices	has	occurred.
2.78. After the preliminary arrangements describe in the preceding paragraphs have been dull carried out, the land ‘will be taken up under the Act either by the Collector or by a special officer placed at the disposal of the Buildings and Roads Department and invested with the powers of a Collector under the Land Acquisition Act. The procedure in the two cases which is applicable in the case of land taken up for Military Works is described in Annexure ‘C” of this Chapter.
2.79. The procedure described in paragraphs 2.73 to 2.78 does Pot apply to cases where the land required is already in possession of another Department of Government or of a local body such cases are governed by special provisions in Financial Commissioners‘ Standing Order No. 28 (Land Acquisition).
(b) Land held for Military purposes.
      280: No land, whether:-
      (a) within cantonment limits,
      (b) forming part of an encamping ground, or
      (c) otherwise held for military purposes,
Should be taken up or occupied for, any purposes whatever either by contractors or any other persons (official or non- official) acting under the orders of any Civil Department until the sanction of the Central Government in the Defence Department to the occupation or use of the land has first been obtained

      and communicated to the. General Officer Commanding the Division or the Independent Brigade, In all such cases, the necessary sanction should be obtained by the General Officer Commanding the Division or the Independent Brigade, through the Quarter-master-General in Pakistan.
      (2) Application for suck land when within cantonment limits should be made by the officer Incharge of the works to ‘the cantonment authority, and by the later to the superior military authority but in the case of a military encamping ground, application should be made to the general officer Commanding the Division or the independent Brigade. The military authorities will then take the necessary steps to obtain (i)the opinion of the West Pakistan Government (i.e., the administrative Department in consultation with the Finance Department), which should invariably be recorded upon all applications, and (ii)the sanction of the Central Government to the occupation of the required land. The foregoing procedure will apply in cases where it is proposed to purchase, or otherwise acquire permanently, any building situated on military	land	for	the	use	of	a	Civil	Department.
(c). Acquisition of land by private negotiation.
      2.81. In the case of land acquired by private negotiation, the land Acquisition Officer who settles the price, etc., should draw up Form A prescribed for use in the case of an award, and this should be made the basis of subsequent payments and audit (Annexure C to this Chapter).
EXECUTION OF WORKS.
I-Commencement of works
      282. It is a fundamental rule that no work shall be commenced unless Administrative Approval by competent authority is given, and properly detailed design and estimate have been sanctioned, allotment of funds made and orders for its commencement issued by competent authority . Permission granted by Government: orders on a Budget estimate for the retention of an entry of proposed expenditure during the year on work conveys no authority for the commencement of outlay. Such permission is granted on the implied understanding that, before any expenditure is incurred, the above conditions will have been fulfilled. Excepting in regard of petty works,	as	defined	in	paragraph	2.18	repairs	of the
2.83-2.84	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[Chap. II
Nature contemplated. in paragraphs 2.20 and 2.54 and in case‘ of real emergency which must be immediately reported and explained to the authorities competent to accord administrative ‘approval and technical sanction, and their approval obtained immediately afterwards, this injunction may no be infringed. On the other hand, the sanction of a design and estimate by Government or any other authority conveys no permission for the Commencement of expenditure on the work, unless such expenditure has been provided for in the budget estimate of the year, or provision has been made for the outlay within the official year either by re appropriation or out of some lump sum grant allotted for the head of classification under which the service falls. Similarly no liability may be incurred in connection with any work until an assurance has been received from the authority competent to provide funds that such funds will be	allotted	before	the	liability	matures.
(2) If in any case, whether on grounds of urgency or otherwise, a Divisional Officer is requited to carry out a work for which no estimates have been sanctioned or for which no financial provision exists (whether estimates have been sanctioned or not) the orders of the officer authorizing the, work should be conveyed in writing. On receipt of such written orders the officer who is directed to carry out the work should immediately intimate to the audit officer concerned that he it incurring a liability for which there is no provision or inadequate provision of funds and should, at the same time, state‘ approximately the amount of the liability which it is likely he will incur by compliance with the written orders which he has received. The audit officer will then be responsible for bringing the facts instantly to the notice of higher financial authority, with a view to necessary steps being taken either to stop the progress of the work or to regularize its execution. There should be no hesitation in enforcing disciplinary action against any officer, administrative or executive, who may fail or delay to comply with these orders.
      283. Verbal orders for the commencement of work are to be depreciated as being liable to misapprehension, but in cases where such orders are given they should ordinarily be confirmed in writing as soon as possible thereafter.
2.84. When any new building is about to be commenced, or any alteration, addition or repairs executed it any buildings due intimation of such intention must be given to the local head of the department, military or civil, concerned.

2.85. No work should be commenced on land which has not been duly made over by the responsible civil officers.
II SCOPE OR SANCTION
2.86. The authority granted by a sanction to an estimate must on all occasions be looked upon as strictly limited by the precise objects for which the estimate was intended to provide Accordingly, any anticipated or actual savings on a sanctioned • estimate for a definite project should not, without special authority be applied to carry out additional work not contemplated in the original project or fairly contingent on its actual execution.
      (2) Savings due to the abandonment of a substantial section of any project sanctioned by an authority not lower than the Chief Engineer are not to be considered as available for work on other sections.
Note (1)—The —special authority” mentioned in sub-paragraph (i) is the authority competent to give administrative approval to the original estimate on which the saving occurs
Note (2)—For the purpose of this ruling, substantial section of a project shall - - be considered to have been abandoned, if the estimated cost of the works in such section is gotten than 5 percent of the total sanctioned cost of the project.
III—LAPSE OF SANCTION.
2.87. The sanction to an estimate for a public work (as distinct from annual repairs) will ordinarily cease to operate after a period of five - years from the date upon which it was accorded, but the acceptance by - competent authority of a budget estimate which includes specific provision for expenditure upon a work which is in progress may be regarded as reviving the sanction to the estimate for the year in which the provision is made. But see- also paragraph 2.46.
IV -ALTERATIONS IN DESIGN DURING CONSTRUCTION
2.88. No material alteration in sanctioned, still less in Standard designs may be made by a Divisional Officer in carrying out any work, without the approval of the Superintending Engineer. If the design was originally prepared by the Consulting Architect a reference should be made to him y‘ the first instance should any alteration of importance involving additional expense be considered necessary, a revised or supplementary estimate (see paragraphs 2.104 to 2.108 ) - should be submitted for sanction. In urgent cases, where the delay thug caused would be inconvenient, an immediate report
2.89-2.94	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	CHAP-II of the circumstances must be made to superior authority, and dealt with as the case may require.
Note—revised s administrative approval is necessary in the cases indicated in paragraph 2.7.
 (2) In the ease of works chargeable to central Revenues the rules made bye Central Government must be followed.
2.89. Where important structural alterations are contemplated, though not necessarily involving an increased outlay, the orders of the original sanctioning authority should be obtained. A revised estimate should be submitted for technical sanction, should the alternations involve any substantial change in the cost of the work.
V—MISCELLANEOUS RULES FOR THE EXECUTIVE OF WORK
2.90. In the execution of works, every case should be taken that the safety and the convenience of the public are duly attended to, and that all operations are carried on in such a manner as to interfere as little as possible nth the traffic or ordinary pursuits of the people. Temporary roads and bridges should, when necessary, be provided and particular attention should be paid to the adequate lighting at night of all obstructions to public roads, and rights of way. The occupation of land should, when practicable, be so timed as not to lead to the destruction of standing crops. Brick and lime k s should not be erected so close to the inhabited part of any town or cantonment as to be a nuisance.
2.91. No religious edifice should be destroyed or injured in the execution of works without the full and free consent of the persons interested in it, nor without the concurrence of the principal civil or political authority on the spot, unless under the orders of the Government within whose jurisdiction the edifice stand-see also paragraph 3.14.
2.92. All interruptions of large works in progress should be immediately reported to the Superintending Engineer the causes and probable duration of such interruptions being duly explained.
2.93. All unusual losses in the manufacture of materials - - must, on their occurrence be reported to the Superintending Engineer.
2.94. Divisional Officers should promptly report (vide paragraph 1.64) to the Chief Engineer, the Regional Officer
[Chap. II	Works-Execution of works 2.95-2.98)
and also, to the Superintending Engineer, the occurrence of all serious and important accidents or damage -to any roads or buildings borne on the books of the Department. Divisional Officers and other subordinates in charge of the works should furnish immediate information to the officer lit charge of the nearest police station on the occasion of every serious accident, and in the case of death on the spot, they should not allow the body to be removed till an enquiry ha been held.
2.95. Carriage of any. description, employed for purposes connected with public works, is as liable to be impressed for military purposes as carriage employed by private individuals.
2.95. The Superintending Engineer may, if he deems it necessary, direct the Divisional Officer to suspend the commencement or progress of any work pending the orders of Government.
2.96 An order book should be opened and kept on all major works in which all important orders to , the executive subordinate or to the contractor should be written.
(2) Diaries of progress should also be maintained under the orders of the Divisional Officer. The regular and the thorough maintenance of records in order books and diaries is essential. They are invaluable in deciding claims made by contractors, butt they must be complete. Dates of arrival of stores be supplied by Government should particularly be note as claims on account, of delay by contractors are frequently based on late supply of stores by Government.
VI -ADVANCE TO CONTRACTORS.
      2.98	. Advances to contractors are prohibited except in the following cases; -
(a) Cases m which a contractor, whose contract for finished work, requires on advance on the security of materials brought to site Divisional Officers may, in such cases, sanction advances up to an amount not exceeding 75 per cent of the value (as assessed by themselves) of such materials, provided that they are of an imperishable nature and‘ that a formal agreement is drawn up with‘ the contractor under which Government secures a lien on the materials and‘ is safeguarded against losses due - to the contractor postponing the execution of‘ the if work or to the shortage or misuse of the materials.
and against the expense entailed for their proper watch and safe custody payment of such advances should be made only on the certificate of an officer, not below the rank of Sub- Divisional Officer, that the quantities of materials upon which the advances are made have actually been brought to site, that the contractor has not previously received any advance on that security and that the materials are all required by the contractor for use on items of work for which ‘rate for finished work have been agreed upon. The officer granting such a certificate will be held personally responsible for any overpayment which may occur in consequence. Recoveries of advances so made should not be postponed until the whole of the work entrusted to the contractor is completed. They should be made from his bills for work done as the materials are used, the necessary deductions being made whenever items of work in which they are used are billed for.
(b)	An advance payment for work actually executed may be made on the certificate of a
responsible officer (not below the rank of sub-Divisional Officer) to the effect that not less than the quantity of work paid for Las actually been done, and the officer granting such certificate will be held personally responsible for any over payment Which may occur on the work in consequences. Final payments, may, however, in no case be made with	out	detailed	measurement.
VII-SANITATION ON EXTENSIVE WORKS. -
2.99. On extensive works, where large labour force is collected, the importance of good butting, water supply, and sanitary arrangements must be borne in mind, and all reasonable precautions must be taken to maintain the health of the labour force and prevent or arrest the progress of epidemics.
      (2) The general principles which should be observed are stated in Appendix -IV, and it will be the duty of the Superintending Engineer to see that these rules are observed.
      (3) Any reasonable outlay for such temporary cover as may be needed for bodies of work-people of considerable

magnitude, for the making out, clearing and draining •of their temporary stations, also for entertaining some small temporary establishment to look after the latrines, one or two policemen, and hospital establishments may be authorized as forming part of the contingent outlay on the work under execution, but in framing large projects, for which the pro- vision of such works can be foreseen, such expenditure should, as far as possible, be specifically provided for in the project estimate.
VIII- INFORMATION TO BE GIVEN TO TUE SURVEY DEPARTMENT
      2.100. With a view to the Survey Department being supplied with information regarding all new public works to enable the map of West Pakistan to be brought up to date, the following procedure is to be followed in regard to new branch or main lines of roads, bridges, boat bridges,, large public works, town water-supply or drainage projects:-
      (I) When any such public work has been constructed, or section thereof has been opened, the index or record map, on whatever scale available (not less than one inch-one mile), provided it is from original survey and not a mere eye sketch made on tracings from the Survey of Pakistan maps, should be sent to the Survey of Pakistan Office, Murree and that Department will take steps to have the material utilized by its own draftsmen. Index plans of main and branch lines of road, bridges, and boat bridges should be sent to Government in the Irrigation Communications and Works Department for transmission to the Survey Department.
      (II) To ensure the material supplied being suitable for the purposes of the Survey Department, the topography adjoining the alignment,, such as village sites, trijunction boundary pillars, other permanent objects and the crossing of roads and streams, should be accurately shown, and it should be stated on the maps supplied if the information is derived from actual - survey or otherwise.
      (III) The Survey Department should be requested to treat index or record maps with every care, and to return them as early as possible to offices from which they have been received so that the labour of making tracings need not be resorted to.
2.101-2.103	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	Chap. III
(IV) It Is the duty of the Divisional Officer to see that this report is sent to the Survey Department within 3 months of completion of f works.
      IX-EXECUTION OF WORKS BY CIVIL OFFICERS.
2.101. Save in cases where the Governor may assign the construction and maintenance of buildings to the departments using or requiring them, the execution of all the works of construction or repairs required for government departments should be entrusted to the Buildings and Roads Department.
H—DEPOSIT WORKS.
2.102 . (1) The department may occasionally be called upon to execute works for Which the outlay is provided wholly or impart from:-
       (a) funds of a public nature, but not included in the financial estimates and accounts of
the West Pakistan Province;
       (b)) contributions from the public (or local bodies.)
      (2) Powers of the Chief Engineer, Regional Engineer Superintending Engineers and Divisional Officers to authorize the undertaking of deposit works are given in paragraph 5.31 which must be exercised in strict conformity with the rules in paragraphs 2.105 to 2.108. These limits are exclusive of establishment and tools and plant charges.
(3) Contribution works in the case of which it is proposed to give a grant-in-aid shall require sanction of Government.
      The Finance Department need not be consulted in regard to contribution works unless it is proposed to give a grant-in-aid towards the work from Provincial revenues. It should however be consulted by the Administrative Department in all cases in which it is proposed to give a grant-in-aid not excess of one lakh requires and in all other cases in which under an other rule sanction to a grant-in-aid not exceeding one lakh requires previous consultation with the Finance Department. See also Annexure D to this Chapter.
2.103. Where a work is to be carried out partly from funds provided in the estimates of the department and partly from funds of the foregoing nature, the contribution will be considered as a lump sum in addition to the Government grant, and the work executed in strict accordance with the procedure laid down for public works. -
[Chap. II	WORKS—DEPOSIT WORKS	2. 104—2. 105]
2.104. The contributions should be realized before any liability is incurred on account of the work, but, where such 4 procedure has been sanctioned by the West Pakistan Government recovery may be made from the contributor by suitable installments on fixed dates. No interest will be allowed on sums deposited as private contributions for public works.
      (2) No deposit should be received for —Deposit Works” until such time as the works have been sanctioned by competent authority
2.105. In cases where the department undertakes to design and construct a work wholly from the sources alluded to in paragraph 2.102 such as a town hail or reservoir for a municipality, or a school or hospital for which funds have been raised by subscription, the following rules will be observed:-
 (I) On receipt of‘ definite assurance as to the amount of funds available, the design and estimate will be drawn up in communication with the party or parties, depositing or administering the funds and must be submitted for the approval of such higher local departmental authority as the extent of the estimate would require.
(II) Provision must be made to cover the cost of establishment and tools and plant referred in pan- graph 229 together with an addition of one per vent for audit and accounts establishment. No reduction in these charges should be made without the sanction of Government. See Appendix 5 of West Pakistan Account Code.
       (III) Prior to the work being put in hand a written approval to the estimate and design must be obtained from the authority depositing or administering the funds and acknowledgement procured to the effect that in undertaking the work the depart men does not accept responsibility for unavoidable and reasonable excesses, such as would be caused by a rise in the price of labour Or material, by au thorised alterations in design, loss by fire or theft, or by other factors which could not be foreseen at the time -the estimate was prepared. Any alteration in design must be similarly dealt with.
(IV) The necessary funds for the prosecution of the work must be realized and paid into the Government treasury either in a lump sum or in such installments and by such dates as the Government shall decide in each case. No advance of Government money for such purpose will be permitted and in a case where the money is paid by inst installments Government will not be responsible for any increase in cost,. or damage to the uncompleted work caused by a temporary stoppage of the work pending receipt of further installments.
(V) It will be the duty of the Officer-in-charge of the work to bring at once to the notice of his superiors and of the local body or individuals any anticipated excess over the estimate, as well as to provide the fullest information i connection with the progress of expenditure so that no responsibility may attach to Government in the event of the work	having	to	be	stopped	for	want	of	funds.
(VI) In ease of deposit works all anticipated excesses owing to the tenders having been received in excess of the estimated rates should be brought at once to notice of the local body or the party concerned under paragraph 2.105-V above accepting the excess and	arranging	the	funds	accordingly.
(VII) Authorities undertaking such works should satisfy themselves that the extent to which Government is responsible in regard to the execution of the work is thoroughly understood both by the parties for whom the work is to be constructed and by the executive officer to whom its construction is to be entrusted.
(VIII) Where the work is of magnitude, or there are any special circumstances which seem to render such a course desirable, an agreement should be drawn up under legal advice,
2106. It must be distinctly understood that contributions on account of one work can, in no circumstances, be utilized in meeting outlay on account of another work, the contributions for which may be in arrears.
Works—DISPOSAL OF ESTIMATES 2 .107—2.109]
SUPPLEMENTARY AND REVISED ESTIMATES.
I—DISPOSAL OF ESTIMATES
I—OFFICE OF RECORD FOR ESTIMATES
2.107. (i)	The original estimates after being sanctioned by proper authority, should be
returned to the Divisional Officer for record in his office and the copies retained in the offices giving sanction and those below him up to Executive Engineer if estimate is sanctioned by Chief Engineer the copies be retained by the Chief Engineer and by Regional Engineer and Superintending Engineer. If it is sanctioned by Regional Engineer, a copy of it should similarly be	retained	by	Regional	Engineer	and	Superintending	Engineer.
      (11) The estimates sanctioned by Chief Engineer, Regional Engineer and Superintending Engineer, must be sent in sufficient number of copies so that one copy be retained by sanctioning authority and another by lower authority right up to Divisional Officer.
      Il—COMMUNICATION OF SANCTIONS TO ESTIMATES
TO TEE AUDIT OFFICE
2. 108 (1) immediate intimation of the sanction to an estimate should be made to the Audit Officer by the authority sanctioning it under copy to all lower formations.
2.1. A consolidated monthly return of all estimates sanctioned by the Divisional Officer or higher authority should be sent by the Divisional Officer on the 5th of each month to the • Audit Office direct sending a copy thereof to the Superintending Engineer.
2.2. The Superintending Engineer is responsible that in case where a substantial section of a project sanctioned by higher authority has been abandoned, even though provisionally, the aggregate assumed cost (including contingencies) of the works included in that section is intimated to the Audit Officer for exclusion from the total sanctioned estimate of the project. See also paragraph 2.86.
      J-SUPPLEMENTARY AND REVISED ESTIMATES
I—SUPPLEMENTARY ESTIMATES
2.109. Any development of a project thought necessary while a work is in progress, which is not fairly contingent on the proper execution of the work as first sanctioned. Must be
covered by a supplementary estimate, accompanied by a full report of the circumstances which render it necessary. The abstract must show the amount of the original estimate and the total of the sanction required including the supplementary amount.
II—REVISED ESTIMATE
2.110. A revised estimate must be submitted when the sanctioned estimate is likely to be exceeded by more than 5 per cent either from the rates being found, insufficient, or from any cause whatever.
2.111. When, a revised estimate is submitted, it must be accompanied by .a comparative statement (Buildings and Roads stereo No. 42.44) and by a report showing the progress made to date.
      It is the duty alike of the Divisional Officer and of the Superintending Engineer to watch carefully the progress of expenditure and to see that a revised estimate is submitted immediately the necessity arises.
2.112. When the submission of a revised estimate under the above rules is found necessary, it is essential that the revised estimate should be compared with the latest existing sanction of competent authority, see paragraph 2.86. When by reason of intermediate modifications such existing sanction differs from that accorded by the highest authority concerned, a statement should be prepared showing how the sanction with which the revised estimate is compared has
been arrived at.
2.113. A revised estimate will also become necessary, it at any time, either before or
during the construction of a work, it is found that the original, estimate for it is excessive ‘for reasons other than abandonment of. a substantial section of a sanctioned project or material deviation from the original proposals, an officer of rank not lower than Divisional Officer or may sanction such a revised estimate, even though its amount may exceed that to which he is ordinarily empowered to accord sanction. When according such sanction he should intimate, giving reasons, to the authority who sanctioned the original estimate and to the Director Audit and Accounts (Works), West Pakistan that the amount of the estimate has been reduced ‘accordingly.
chap- II	WOKS-COMPLETION REPORTS,	2.114-2.115
CERTIFICATES AND PLANS
III-UTILIZATION OF COMPLETION
Report or statement as revised estimate
2.114. When excesses occur at such an advanced period in the construction of a work as
to render the submission of a revised estimate purposeless, the excesses, If beyond the power of the Divisional Officer to pass, may be explained in completion Report or Statement prepared under the rules in paragraph 2.115 but when excesses of more than 5 per cent are show in a completion report it should be explained why a revised estimate was not submitted before the work wag completed, and the Superintending Engineer should report whether the probability of an excess occurring was reported to him on a work sup as required by‘ paragraph 1.54.
K-COMPLETION REPORTS, CERTIFICATES
AND PLANS I-GENERAL
2.115. (1) A detailed completion Report or a Completion Statement as necessary,-tide
clause (2) must be prepared on the completion of works in the following cases:-
      (i)	( For all works chargeable to capital regardless of the actual expenditure being
equal to or more or less than the sanctioned amount.
      (ii) (is) For works chargeable to heads other than Capital: -
      (a ) if the estimate of the work has been exceeded by more than 5 per cent,
      (b)	if the actual expenditure on a work exceeds the limit of the Divisional Officer‘s
power to sanction estimates technically, even if the excess is within 5 per cent of the amount of the estimate, and
      (c ) if there has been an excess over a revised estimate
      (2) (A) Detailed completion report in Buildings and Roads Account Form 44, 47 is to be submitted on completion of works, on which the outlay has been recorded by sub-heads. It should give a comparison and explanation of differences between the quantities rates, and cost of various items of work executed and those in the estimate, and should also mention
2.166	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	Chap-II
The names of the Engineers, and Overseers, who supervise the work from time to time during the period of its execution.
      Note-The Superintending Engineer may, if be so desires require a detailed completion report to be prepared on the completion of any other work.
(b) A completion statement in —Buildings and Roads Account Form 45 showing the total estimated cost, the outlay and the excess, if any, is to be submitted to completion of other works as defined in sub-paragraph (I) supra. A consolidated statement should be prepared monthly of all such works completed during the mouth.
When the completion statement is to be utilized instead of a revised estimate under paragraph 2.114, sufficient details must be given to satisfy the authority, whose sanction is necessary.
(3) In eases where no completion report of statement is required to be submitted by the Divisional Officer the date of completion of all major works should be reported to the Superintending Engineer who is required to inform the Head of the. Department direct, as well as the Provincial Government in the Buildings and Roads Department, of dates of completion of works sanctioned by them or by the Chief Engineer.
Note - Similar produce should be followed in reporting late of commencement of all major works to the Head of department and the provincial Government
II-WORKS EXECUTED ON BEHALF OF OTHER DEPARTMENT
2.116 On the completion of an original work executed on behalf of another department, a completion certificate in West Pakistan Buildings and Roads Stereo Form N. 130 should be forwarded by the Divisional Officer to the civil and military authority concerned, who should, after signing it in the space provided for the purpose-(vide also paragraph 2.120) return it to the Divisional Officer.
(2) In the case of repairs, the Sub-Divisional Officer should submit a completion certificate in West Pakistan Buildings and Roads Stereo Form No. 129 to the officer of the department immediately interested in the work who should, after endorsing it with the remark that the work is in —good order” or otherwise, forward it to his departmental superior (if he is not himself the officer competent to sign the certificates). The later officer should then transmit to the Divisional Officer for disposal.
(Chap. II	WORKS - COMPLETION REPORTS	2.117-2.120
CERTIFICATES AND PLANS
(3) The completion certificate in the case of pety works and repairs will be endorsed on the requisition West Pains- tan Account Form No. 32 and no separate certificate is then required.
117. Civil and Military Officers are required to fill up and sign all authorized forms of requisition, completion report or other certificate of execution that may be required by the Divisional Officer in consequence of the execution of any work on their application or order.
2.118. The countersignature of a Civil and Military Officer merely implies, in the case of an original work, that the work has been completed and taken over, and in the case of repairs that the building or work generally, is in proper order, and involves no further responsibility. If the counter- signing officer is not satisfied - with the work and wishes to make any remarks, he can do so over his signature, but he‘ should bear in mind, that, in making remarks which are unnecessary or irrelevant, he may occasion much trouble and delay. See also paragraph 2.124.
III—RECORD AND OTHER DRAWING & AND PLAINS
2.119. Record drawings, showing the work as actually constructed, should be completed as soon as possible by the officer in immediate charge of every new work or alteration of an existing work, for approval and record by the Divisional Officer (vide paragraph 2.120
      Completion plans, consisting of copies of the record plans of the more important works and alterations, should, if required to elucidate the report or if otherwise, so directed by the Superintending Engineer be prepared in the Divisional Office to accompany the completion report.
      Note-similar procedure should be followed in reporting date of commencement of all major works to the Read of Department and the Provincial Government.
Note-(i)) Recode drawings of important municipal works constructed by the Buildings and Roads Department should be supplied to the Municipality concerned.
Note—(2) Record drawings of buildings should consist of a site plan, ground plan, elevation and one or two actions as may be necessary to illustrate the work preferably one sheet. Detail, of doors, windows etc‘ are not required.
      2.120. (1) A Divisional Officer must keep on record in his office the following plans or such of them as are required in his Division-
(i) Copies of all standard plans of buildings.
(ii) Complete plans, sections, and elevations of every building under his charge whether military, or Civil, as actually constructed, any departures from sanctioned design being carefully noted. The boundaries of the ground attached to any buildings should be distinctly shown.
(iii) Plans of roads under his charge showing the quarries whence metal is obtained. (iv) Detailed drawings including foundations, where practicable of all bridges, and other works in the Division as actually constructed, any departures from sanctioned design being carefully noted, the boundaries of the ground attached thereto being distinctly shown.
(v) Complete land plans of all land in the possession of Government, viz. -
(a) Land for which a Divisional Officer is directly responsible.
      (b) Land belonging to buildings borne on the book
of the Department.
(c) Land appertaining to works. made over to Local Authorities.
(d) Lands encroached upon by local bodies and allowed to remain in their possession, subject to the condition that they are liable to be resumed by Government in the event of their being required for a public purpose.
      (e) Land Leased to private persons.
(vi) Complete plans of all storm water drains, river, with its boundary under his charge together with longitudinal section and cross section at suitable scale.
(vii) Longitudinal section of all sewers showing main- hole junctions, screen, inlet in to chamber along with reduced level.
(vii) Longitudinal section showing diameter of all pipe lines, rising mains, distribution lines, fire hues, Hydrants, wells of all descriptions.
(iv)	Geological sections of all boreholes together with
completion strata-chart with strainers, blank pipe, junction bail plug, and top casing.
(x) Complete site plans showing the locality of a tube- well and its discharge on its completion together with, depression head.
(xi) Complete plans of all spring which serve as sources for water supply or wells or other
 water supply sources together with their discharges. Complete plan of all reservoir on head works or along with the distribution system.
(xii) Complete plans of electric installations overhead and underground internal head as well as external r up to sub-section if under the charge of Buildings and Roads Department.
2. In Circle Offices the following record plans should be maintained:-
(i) All plains as per I above for office record.
(ii) Copies of all standard plans for well chambers, pump chambers reservoir, community
      latrine disposal works and other standard sanitary works.
(iii) Copies of all standard type drains, egg shaped sewer or reinforced cement concrete sewers.
(iv) Completion plans of all important earthwork on bund or embankments.
(v) Maps of districts and civil stations in the West‘ Pakistan, Linear maps of the Principal Lines of roads in the West Pakistan.
      (Superintending Engineers and Divisional Officers should keep these maps in so far as they relate to their respective charges corrected up-to-date).
(vi) Copies of all standard plans of buildings.
3. In. the Chief Engineer‘s office the following record plans will be maintained : -
(i) Maps of districts and civil stations in the West Pakistan.
(ii) Copies of all standard plans of buildings.
‘Note—plans mentioned as items (I) to 2) also be kept on record in the Chief Engineer Office.
2.	Similarly the regional engineer shall maintain, all plans mentioned above relating to his
region in his office.
(4) All record‘, plans must be kept up-to-date, and it will he the duty of the Divisional Officer to forward completion
88
2.121 plans of all additions and alterations to the Superintending Engineer for correction of the Circle Office copies. Similarly the Superintending Engineer is responsible that such plans are forwarded to the Regional Engineer and the Chief Engineer‘s. office for correction of the record plans there maintained.
      (5) Where a number of bridges or other masonry works have been made of the same type it will not be necessary to forward conies of the record plans of each one of them. It will be sufficient to notify in the letter forwarding the completion report that the work is of the same type as that submitted with a previous letter, the number and date of which should be given.
      (6) Superintending Engineers during their inspection should see that the record plans are maintained and are corrected up-to-date.
      2.121. A record plan should be correct representation of the work as actually built. Thus, in the case of well foundations, it should show in plan the exact position of all the wells, and in sectional elevation in the directions at right angles to each other, the exact depth to which they have been sunk. This will exhibit all changes in position of wells and deviations from the vertical which have occurred in the course of sinking_and have remained uncertified. The wells should bear on the record plan the same numbers as they have borne during construction and a statement should appear on the drawing showing the reduced level of the curb of each well after completion of sinking. The position and dimensions of all any pales or planks driven to close the spaces between wells should be clearly shown, as should also be the concrete or other materials used to fill the wells or the spaces between them. A details of the corbelling or arching employed to connect wells should be drawn separately on a scale large enough to show the details.
      (2) In the case of concrete foundations, the outside edges should be correctly plotted end, where piling or stakes are used to surround or partition off the foundation area, their position should be shown. Changes in foundation level should Se correctly shown in sectional elevation and the reduced levels of the base and top of the concrete should be given. In case of any other material being used beneath the concrete it nature and dimensions must be clearly shown.
[Chap. II	WORKS—COMPLETION REPORTS,	2.122
CERTIFICATES AND PLANS
      (3) Reduced levels of all important points of the work, as found after its completion should be entitled on the drawings.
      (4 Geological sections should be given in the case of work in which the foundation level is more than six feet below the natural surface.
      (5) Separate drawings should be made to show the details of iron work and wood work and of any other important structural details -
      2-122. Ordinarily, on the completion of a work, the record drawings should be completed by the Officer in immediate charge; and, after being signed and dated by him under an entry as executed, they should be sent to the Divisional Officer, who, if satisfied as to their correctness, should countersign them and date them and have the necessary copies made for submission with the completion report where necessary.
       (2) In order that no difficulties shall arise in consequence of the transfer of an Officer-in- charge of a work, on all large works a progress should be maintained and kept thoroughly up-to- date on which all departures from the sanctioned design should be shown. For small works the outgoing officer should record on the working drawing the level to which the work was built under his charge, giving notes of any deviations is from the sanctioned plan.
      (3) Completion plans should be prepared and attested as soon as possible after the completion of a work.
       (4) A register of completion plans received should be- maintained in the Divisional drawing office.
      (5) An annual statement should be submitted on 10th- October by Divisional Officer to Superintending Engineer giving details or estimates which have been closed during the year but for which completion plans have not been received within 3 months after the date of closing the estimate.
      2-123. Every plan and drawing, of whatever kind, must be properly authenticated by the dated signature of the Office, by whom, or under whose orders it is prepared .
      (2) In all completion plans, besides the certificate of completion according to drawing, the names of the Executive Officers by whom the work was designed and by whom it was executed, should also be given.
      (3) The name or signature of every officer and the date of the signature, which is on a plan Or drawing of any kind, should be shown on all copies of such plan or drawing.
IV—OFFICE OF RECORD
2.124. (1) On the completion of any work in respect of which a completion Report or Statement is required under paragraph 2.115, such report or statement should be forwarded by the Divisional Officer to the Audit Officer, who should, after verification of the figures, transmit it to the Superintending Engineer: That Officer should forward to the Chief Engineer through the Regional Engineer completion Reports or Statements of all works, the estimates of which have been exceeded beyond his power of sanction. A copy of the completion report or statement of those capital works on which there has either been no excess or the excess is within the Superintending Engineer‘s powers of sanction, should also be supplied by the Superintending Engineer to the Chief Engineer through the Regional Head for note and return.
      (After disposal, the completion report or statement will be finally recorded in the office of the authority sanctioning the estimate).
      (2) Sanctions accorded to excess expenditure in completion reports should also be communicated to the head of the Department concerned (and to Government in the Public Works Department in case of sanctions accorded by Superintending Engineers) to keep them informed of the completion of works.
      (3) Completion plans, if any, should not be sent to the Il Audit Officer but should be forwarded direct to the Superintending Engineer who should attach them to the completion report on its receipt.
      (4) completion certificates, which should not be submitted to audit, should ordinarily be retained hi the Divisional office, bit in the event of unfavorable remarks having been corded upon such a certificate by any Civil or Military Officer, it should be submitted for the orders of the Superintending Engineer with the explanation of the Divisional Officer and an account of an action he may have taken.
Chap. II	WORKS-COMPLETION REPORTS,	2. 125]
CERTIFICATES AND PLANS
V-PREPARATION AND DISPOSAL OF COMPLETION
REPORTS,
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS.
2125.	Completion reports should be prepared and submitted in accordance with the
instructions contained in paragraphs 2.115 and 2.124 supra .
(2) Under paragraph 2.124 completion reports will be Med in the office of the
sanctioning authority. The following detailed, instructions should be observed in this connection:-
      (a) Consolidated completion statements in West Pakistan Account Form No. 45 of estimates sanctioned by the Divisional Officer the actual expenditure on which is in excess, of the sanctioned estimate by an amount beyond the Divisional Officer‘s powers of passing, should be sent direct to the Director Audit and Accounts (Works), West Pakistan who will, after verification, forward the same to the Superintending Engineer concerned. The latter will sanction the excess and communicate it to the Divisional Officer and the Director Audit and Accounts (Works), West Pakistan. In cases where the excess is beyond the Superintending Engineer‘s. powers to pass he will take necessary Steps to obtain the Government‘s sanction.
      (b) Completion reports of estimates sanctioned by Super- intending Engineers the outlay on which is in excess of the sanction estimate by an amount greater than that which the Divisional Officer is empowered to pus, should be forwarded 7 by the Divisional Officer direct to the Director Audi and. Accounts Works, West Pakistan, who will after verification pass tin the same to the Superintending Engineer concerned. The excess will be considered and sanctioned by the Superintending Engineer if within his powers of sanction. by a separate letter, and communicated to the Divisional Officer and Director Audit and Accounts (Works), West ‘Pakistan If the excess is beyond the power of sanction of the Superintending Engineer will take necessary, steps to get the sanction of competent authority.
      (c) Completion reports of estimates sanctioned by the Chief Engineer or Government, the actual expenditure on which is in excess of the, sanctioned estimate by an amount beyond the Divisional Officer‘s power to pass, should be sub
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	Chap. II
submitted direct to the Director Audit and Accounts (Works), who will, after verification, transmit the same to the Superintending Engineer concerned who will sanction the excess, if -within his powers of sanction by latter. The Superintending Engineer shall forward a copy of the letter with the completion report in original to the Chief Engineer through regional officer for record. When the excess is beyond the powers of sanction of the Superintending Engineer, he will forward the completion report together with needful explanations by the Divisional Officer and himself for sanction of the excess by competent authority. Necessary sanction of Government to such excess will be communicated to the Chief Engineer and Director. Audit and Accounts (Works), West Pakistan, and tre completion report filed in the Secretariat.
(d) Detailed completion reports in West Pakistan Account Form 44 will be prepared in respect of works on which the outlay has been recorded by sub-heads.
(e) Registers of sanctions should be posted in each office as the Completion Report is received.
      (f) Particular instructions for the preparation and disposal of completion reports relating to the Buildings and Roads Departments are given in the Buildings and Roads Manual of Orders, paragraphs 8.11 to 8.16.


