CHAPTER	IV
MISCELLANEOUS RULES REGARDING OFFICE WORK, EXCLUDING ACCOUNTS PROCEDURE
A-INITIAL RECORDS OF ACCOUNT
4.1. The initial records upon which accounts of works are based are: —
      (a) The Mater Roll.
      (b) The Measurement Book.
      For work done by daily labour, the subordinate in charge of the work will prepare a muster roll which will show the work done by this, means and the amount payable on this account. For piece-work and for contract work guerilla, the measurement book will form the basis of Account. From the muster rolls the subordinate will prepare the labour re ports,, and from the measurement book the bills and accounts of contractors and suppliers will be prepared and checked by Or under the orders of the Divisional officer or of the Sub- Divisional Officer;
I-MUSTER ROLLS
4.2. The nominal muster roll, Buildings and Roads Accounts Form 21, is the initial record of the labour employed each day on‘ a work, and must be written up daily by the subordinate deputed for the purpose. . . (These should be issued from Divisional Office duly numbered and a record kept. All muster roll forms issued to subordinates should be signed on the top by the Divisional Officer as a safeguard against the possibility of unauthorized form being used.)
4.3. For all works or groups of works on which casual labour is employed, labour Reports in Stereo B. & R. Form No. 124 will be prepared by the Subordinate in charge daily and submitted the same day to the Sub-Divisional Officer in charge of the work. The reports should show the number of each class of laborers employed on each work or sub-head. Discrepancies between labour report and muster rolls, should be investigated as soon as the latter are received.
4.4. Charges for labour should be carefully scrutinized and the head —daily labour” should not include charges of any other kind however trifling. The‘ Divisional Officer and the Sub- Divisional Officer should devote special attention to this
4.5]
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[Chap. IV
      subject as expenditure on daily labour paid against a muster roil is not supported by ordinary vouchers or receipts for payment. All work done through daily labour which are measurable should be detailed in the Measurement Books which should be submitted along with the muster roll for r check and scrutiny before payment.
(2) The payment of daily labour through a contractor instead of by muster roll is objectionable in principle, but if, in case of emergency, it be found - necessary to employ daily labour through a contractor, (this be done with the written order of Executive Engineer who should give the number and date on which to be employed). The subordinate in charge must submit to the Sub- Divisional Officer a daily report in Stereo B. and R Form No. 124 detailing the number of men employed through each contractor as daily labour submitting simultaneously a copy to Divisional Officer for cheek and record in his office. These reports will be retained by ‘the Sub- Divisional Officer and will form the basis of the payment made to the contractor.
(3) When daily labour is paid through a contractor, the labour reports should be headed —Labour supplied by Contractor.” To avoid disputes with the contractors, they and their authorized agent must sign the daily reports in token of their acceptance as correct.
II-MEASUREMENT BOOKS
(1) The measurement book must be looked upon as a most important record since it is the
basis of all accounts of quantities; whether of work done by labour or by the piece or by contract,
or of materials received; which have to be counted or measured. The description of the work
must be lucid so as to admit of easy identification and check.
(2) Detailed measurement may be dispensed with in of periodical repairs when the quantities are rein efficiency. maintained standard measurement
(3) Detailed measurements may also be dispensed with, in exceptional circumstances when there is no time to carry out detailed measurement and in such cases payments on account of work actually executed can be made on the certificate of the Divisional Officer to the affect that not less than the quantity of work paid for has actually been done, and in such cases he
Chap. IV)	MISCELLANEOUS RULES —	4.5
INITIAL RECORDS OF ACCOUNT
Will be held personally responsible tar any overpayment which may occur on the work in consequence. A second advance payment should not be made unless detailed measurements have been recorded in respect of any such advance payment previously made. Final payment should, however, in no case be made without detailed measurements.
Note—the payment made without the detailed measurement should in no cue exceed 75 per cent of the work actually done. Detailed measurem should then he taken within one month of making advance payment at the latest. The Divisional Accountant shall be personally responsible to bring the Infringement of the above rules to the notice of the Executive Engineer.
(4) Similarly the detailed measurements may be dispensed with in connection with the works done on lumpsum contract if a responsible officer (not below the rank of the Divisional officer ) Officer) certifies in the bill that by a superficial and general measurement or in some other suitable method, which should be specified, he has satisfied himself that the value of the work done is not less than a specified amount in conformity with the contract agreement, and that, with the exception of authorized additions . and alterations, the work has been done according to the prescribed specifications Detailed measurements must immediately be taken in respect of additions and alterations
(5) Every Officer making or ordering payment on behalf of Government should satisfy himself that work has been actually done in accordance with the bill submitted. For payment He- should inspect personally all the most important works before authorizing final payment, and should chock the measurements made by his subordinates as per scale laid by the Chief Engineer.
            Check measurement—(G) As measurements from the basis of all payments, a Sub-Divisional Officer must make all measurements himself for works the estimated cost for which is more than Es 25,000 (Twenty-five thousands) The Sub-Divisional Officer must check measure personally not less than the following percentage of the measurements made by his subordinates:-
(i) Works costing more than Rs. 5,000 and up to Rs. 25.000 a Sub-Divisional Officer check measure 35 per cent, of the cost of all such works.
(ii) Works costing Rs. 200 to Rs. 5,000 a sub Divisional Officer should check measure not less
4.5]	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT	Chap. IV
than 50 (fifty) per cent of the cost of all such works.
      (b) The above limits apply to settled sub-divisions and must in all cases be considered as the minima. At large construction works, it shall be within the discretion of the Divisional Officer to fix such limits as ‘he may consider sufficient to ensure adequate control over the expenditure.
(c) When a check measurement is made by a. Sub-Divisional Officer , the fact should b noted under his dated initials in the measurement book thus —
(d) Check measurement made by me on 	vide Measurement Book No	
Page	 The	subordinate concerned was/were not present when the measurement was
made.‘
(e) Ordinarily, the subordinate who did the original necessary check measurements if possible, before the sub original subordinate is under orders of transfer,. the Sub-Divisional Officer should make a special round of the section and do the necessary check measurements if possible,	before	the	subordinate	leaves.	-
(f) The Divisional officer is expected to keep in close touch with such check measurements in order to see that the Sub- Divisional Officers do them efficiently and promptly.
(g) With a view to safeguard against the risk of double payment check measurements made by the Sub-Divisional officer, should be entered in a separate. Measurement Book which should be labeled ‘Check Measurement Book‘ and at the end of each measurement the Sub-Divisional. Officer should record the following information —
(1) The number and the name o the estimate
(2) Date of Final payment.
(3) Number and page of subordinate ‘s measures Books.
(4) The quantity mead by the subordinate with date

MISCELLANEOUS RULES—INITIAL RECORDS OF ACCOUNT
(5) Proportion of the work checked by the Sub-Divisional Officer.
(6) Difference in quantities and reason, for any difference.
(h )	No payments are to be made on entries in a ‘check Measurement Book’ but it should be
submitted for inspection, audit and annual scrutiny in the same way as the ordinary measurement books
(i) The part selected for checking should be measured by the Sub-Divisional Officer in his own Check Measurement hook without reference to the original measurements and the totals compared. Cross reference should invariably be given The quantity measured should be such as forms a check on the hole (e.g. to measure the door and windows on of a rest house is no check on the whole). When the Sub-Divisional Officer‘s Check reveals differences not exceeding 2 per cent in the case of original works, 5 per cent in the case of repairs and 10 percent in the case of earth work whether it is in connection with original work or repairs the subordinate‘s entries for the portion checked should only be rectified according to the check measurements and a note to
The following effect inserted.
‘Corrected in accordance with check Measurement
Book No 	Pages	
      But when the differences exceed the above limits the whole work should be re-measured by the Sub-Divisional Officer himself and payments made thereon, the case being reported to higher	authorities	for	action	against	the	subordinate.
(j) Check measurement by Divisional Officer.
The Divisional Officer must check at least full 24 bills in a Financial year or 10 (ten) per cent of the total payment made in his Division in a financial year, whichever is more. Each final bill should have an abstract is check measurements relating to the work billed for attached to it besides the usual certificate of original measurements. The Divisional Accountant shall be. Personally responsible to see that this abstract is attached with every final bill. Omissions if any should be brought by him prominently to the notice of the Divisional Officer.
      (k,) In each office of Sub-Divisional and Divisional officers a record should be kept of payments made or measure
4.6-4.7	WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	Chap. IV
      meat, recorded per month and check measurements made by Sub Divisional and Divisional Officers This be totaled at the end of the financial year and put up to Divisional Officer and inspecting Audit Officer and Superintending Engineer respectively at the time of Office inspections.
6.	In case of buildings only, regardless of the budget 1. head ‘under which financed Sub-
Divisional Officers are permitted to check the subordinates original measurements and unless errors in measurement or differences from sanctioned plans are in excess of those in 5 (i) above the Sub-Divisional Officer need not record measurements in his own check Measurement Book..
      The Sub-Divisional Officer must however, record, a certificate of cheek both in the subordinate‘s Measurement Books and in his Own Check Measurement Beth. In his own Check Measurement Book he should give an abstract as in 5(i) above.
      It is emphasized however, that strict supervision should be exercised against any abuse of this connection. The measurements of the foundations of the buildings and other works likely to be covered should, however,, be made invariably by the Sub-Divisional Officer himself and actually recorded before foundations are covered.
4.6 Each measurement book should be given a serial number by the Press which would appear in bold figures on the outer cover as well as on each page of the book.
      The pages of the book should also be machine numbered and no page should on any account be torn out, nor should an entry be erased or effected so as to be illegible. If a. mistake be made, it should be corrected by crossing out the incorrect words or figures and re-writing the words or figures, and the correction ‘thus made should be initialed. A reliable record is the object to be aimed, at, as it may have to be produced as evidence in a court of law.
4.7. Every measurement must be, recorded in the measurement book at the time it is taken and nowhere else. The - practice of entering measurements in note books and elsewhere and afterwards copying them into measurement books is strictly prohibited.
(2) The entries in the measurement book should, if possible, be made preferably in ink; but
‘when this is not possible.
Chap. IV]	MISCELLANEOUS RULES -INITIAL 4.8
RECORDS OF ACCOUNTS
      and entries have to be made in pencil, the pencil entries should not be inked over, but left untouched. The entries in the —contents. Or area” column should, however, be made in ink in the first instance and not inked over.
(3) In all case where payments for earth-work are to be made from longitudinal and cross sections prepared before the work is started, the levels for such works should b recorded in a special level book to be maintained by each subordinate for this purpose only. The levels on which the sections are plotted should be entered in ink and the quantities should be calculated from the above mentioned level data or from the calculated longitudinal and cross sectional areas plotted there from The calculations forming details of the measurement should be entered in ink in the special level book below the data of the final leveling on which the particular measurement is based. -
      These special level books together with the original plotting of the sections should then be treated with the same care and precision as laid down for measurement books as. being an initial record of measurements
(4) No measurements for the preparation of a bill should be accepted from an officer of lower standing than an Overseer. Certain exceptions to this rule are, however, allowed in the Buildings and Roads department -vide para 3.25 III (b) & (c ) of B and R Manual of orders
(5) The Superintending Engineer is required to make it his special duty during his tours to see that measurement books are carefully kept and measurements properly recorded, and that they are complete records of the actual measurements of each kind of work done for which certificates have been granted. He should also see that any orders of Government regarding check measurements are duly observed.
(6) When a. measurement book is lost, an immediate report should be made of the facts of the case, and this report must be promptly forwarded to Government, together with the explanation of all parties concerned, or responsible for the loss.
(7) All Measurement Books should be checked in the Sub- Divisional Office after
every three months by the Sub-Divisional Clerk under the supervision of the Sub. Divisional
Officer. At the close of the financial year all Measurement Books iii the Sub-Division should, however, be checked personally by the Sub-Divisional Officer to see that none is missing and they are properly maintained in: accordance with the rules. They should be checked twice a year in the Divisional Office in the mouths of July and January. The Divisional Head Clerk shall see at the time of each half yearly scrutiny that all. the Measurement Books in each Sub-Division are sent by the Sub-Divisional Officers in suitable batches so that not a single book remains to be sent by the Sub-divisional Officers in the Divisional Office. The Divisional Accountant will then be responsible t review the Measurement Books under the supervision of the Divisional Officer. No Measurement Book should remain in the Divisional Office for the purpose of review for more than a fortnight.
      Standard Measurement Book—(1) Standard Measurement Books should be maintained in accordance with the instructions contained in paragraph 210 of West Pakistan B. & 4. Account Code. The object is to reduce once and for all the labour of measuring up quantities that are done annually or at short intervals.
(2) A register for these books in Buildings & Roads Account Form No. 92, Part LI should be maintained in the Divisional and Sub-Divisional Officers which should be kept under lock and key iii. the custody of the Divisional Head Clerk and the Sub-Divisional Clerk concerned. These books should be numbered in an alphabetical series so as to be readily	distinguished	from	ordinary	measurement	books.
(3) In view of lie fact that these books will form the basis of both the annual repair estimates and contractors‘ bills for work done they should be written up either by the Sub-Divisional officer himself or by a subordinate under his orders. Each set of measurements taken by the latter class of official should, however, be fully checked by the Sub- Divisional Officer concerned. After which it should be examined by the Divisional officer and declared in writing in the book itself as finally approved by him for one or both of the purposes specified above. Until this is done, the book will not be entered in Register of Standard Measurement Books nor will number be assigned to it.
(4) The standard Measurement books will he brought up to date under the supervision of Sub-Divisional Officer with
Chap. IV]	MISCELLANEOUS RULES INITIAL 4.6
RECORDS OF ACCOUNTS
reference to any additions or alterations, which may. be carried out to the buildings or work concerned, within one month of. closing of the accounts of estimate therefore all such corrections will be duly attested by the Sub-Divisional Officer.
(5) The Divisional Officer will also be expected to exercise a check over the completion of
standard measurement books, from time to Lime, by personally examining each book at least once a year. To this end, the programme of work should ordinarily be as follows —
(a) As soon after the close of the financial year as Possible the Sub-Divisional Officer concerned will arrange for a personal examination of these books with a view to satisfying himself that they have been brought up-to-date with reference to the additions alterations or special repairs carried out in the buildings or work during the preceding year and submit them not later than the 15th September of the inspection of the divisional officer
(b) On receipt in the Divisional Office, the books will be compared with the register of
standard measurement books in order to ensure that all books have been submitted for inspection. They will then be subjected to such scrutiny as the Divisional Officer may direct. A comparison of these books with the accounts of expenditure and the record of connected measurements relating to estimates for additions, alterations or special repairs to buildings and works in the division, should, however, form a feature of the check to be applied.
(c) A report should be made to the Superintending Engineer so as to reach him not later than the 31st October of each year to the effect—
(i) That all the standard measurement books of
      the division have been inspected by the Divisional Officer;
(ii) that the entries made therein have not been
       tampered with;
(iii) that all corrections due to additions or alterations in the buildings or work concerned have been carried out; and
(vi) that the books are reliable and up-to-dale records.
      A copy of this report should be furnished to the Audit Officer. N.B-A .—A record of the results of scrutiny referred to should invariably be retained and produced if required for the Superintending Engineer or the Audit officer Inspections.
(6) When a payment is based on standard measurements the following certificate should, invariably be recorded on the bill, in the hand-writing of the Sub-Divisional Officer preparing, examining or verifying it:
—Certified that the whole of the work billed for herein has been actually done and that no portion thereof has been previously billed for in any shape.‘
Ill—Progress report of measurements on works executed -under contract
4.9. Every officer or subordinate in charge of a work carried out under contract should furnish to the Divisional Officer at the beginning ct each month a progress report of the measurements, and a calculation of the quantities of work paid for during the previous month, together with a return of all the materials at site on the last - day of the month (along with check measurement made by Divisional and Sub-Divisional Officer). And no such officer or subordinate should be relieved of his charge until after a careful inspection by his superior officer, or under the certificate granted by the re livening officer. It is the duty of the officer in charge to bring to notice any dilatoriness, bad work, or anything militating against the interests of Government on the part of the contractor;, and he will be responsible for any neglect in this respect. •
B—CUSTODY OF CASE
4.10. Public money in the custody of the department should be kept in strong treasure chest secured by two locks of different patterns, one of which may be a Sparing lock or such other lock as may from time to time be prescribed by the Chief Engineer. In Sub-Divisions, the key of this special
      lock shall remain in the personal custody of the Sub-Divisional Clerk, neither key may be entrusted even temporarily to any other person.
(2) In Divisions the Divisional Officer will have charge o the key of the special lock
      and	the	Head	Clerk	of	the	other	lock.
(3) When a cashier is appointed to a Division, the key of the special lock will remain
      in his custody and the key of the other lock with the Head Clerk.
(4) Where burglar proof cash chests are used with one fixed lock which is operated upon by three keys numbered 1, 2, 3 in rotation, keys numbered I and 3 will be treated as of the special lock and key No. 2 of the other lock for purposes of the above rule.
(5) The duplicate keys of the Divisional and Sub-Divisional treasure chests shall, under the seal of the Divisional Officer concerned, be placed in the custody of the Treasury Officer in the jurisdiction of the Division concerned and a —Duplicate key Register” maintained in each Divisional Officer. Once a year in the month of August, the duplicate keys should be sent for from the Treasury Officer, examined, and returned to him under a fresh seal, a note being made in the register that they have been found correct‘.
(6) The treasure chest shall never be opened unless both custodians of the keys are present and both of them should remain present while it is open and until If is again locked.
(2) 1	. In order to minimize the risk of loss of public money, all impress should be kept
as low as possible, being reduced in amount whenever circumstances render this possible.
(3) Wherever practicable imprest holders should be supplied with small iron cash boxes but in any case the imprest holder is responsible for the exercise of proper care in the custody of cash and in case of loss the onus of proof that proper care was exercised will	lie	with	him.
(4) In no circumstances is it permissible for private money to be mixed up with public money or even to be kept in the same cash chest where such a chest is provided by Government,
(5) All cash receipts by the officer Incharge should be initialed.
(6) If a Government servant who is not Incharge of a cash book receives money on behalf of Government at exceptional times, he should pay or remit it at the earliest opportunity to the nearest officer having a cash chest or direct into a treasury. The acknowledgement of the Treasury should be forwarded to the next superior officer having a cash book, to enable him, to make the necessary entries therein. The record of the transaction will be in the correspondence and not in the imprest account of receiving officer.
C—CASHIERS
2. 12. ' With the sanction of Government the cashiers may be appointed whenever the cash transactions of a Division or Sub-Division are sufficiently extensive to require it.
413. One cashier may make the cash payments of two or ‘more Divisions or Sub-Divisions or throughout the whole of a Division, whenever such an arrangement is found to be practicable.
4-14. The Divisional Officer or the Sub-Divisional Officer, as the case may be, will count the cash in the hands of each cashier at least once a month; or in the case of out-stations, he will count it whenever he may visit them. He will on such occasion record a note in the cash book showing the date of* examination and the amount (in words) found. In order to minimize the chances of temporary misappropriation ‘of money surprise count must be made as often as possible -b Divisional Officers in addition to the above monthly count, and this should be carried out whenever possible. (The balance by actual count should moreover be compared with the cash book balance and excess or deficit, if any, noted in the cash book and reported to the immediate superior as well as the audit officer.
D—stores
I—General
415. The stores of the Buildings and Roads Department are divided into the following classes, viz. Stock, or general stores, (ii) Tools and Plant, (iii) Road metal and (iv) Material charged ‘direct to works. The officer Incharge of a Sub-Division will be responsible for all the stores belonging to it.
Chap. IV] MISCELLANEOUS RULES -STORES [4.46-4. 17)
416. -	A Divisional Officer is responsible that proper arrangements are made throughout his
Division for the custody of public property. He must be careful to keep all tools and implements in efficient order, must protect surplus stock from deterioration and provide suitable accommodation for valuable and combustible stores which would prevent the possibility Li large losses by fire or other accident.
(b) Tools and Plant belonging to the Department may be hired to other Government Departments, local bodies and bona fled contractors by a Divisional Officer on the following conditions
(i) That reasonable hire is charged. in all cases.
(ii) That the period of hire is fixed in advance^ and shall in no case exceed three months
(iii) That ample precautions are taken for the due return of the articles in good condition
(iv) A loan of tools -and plant of a value exceeding
Rs 1,000 shall be reported at once to the superintending Engineer
(v) That proper accounts are kept in the Divisional office of all such transactions, duly supported by acknowledgements of borrowers. The hire to be charged will be fixed by Divisional officer and will be recovered in advance.
(vi) Ordinary tools and plant such as phaurahs pick axes, rammers, etc., should not be lent to contractors.
NOTE+ When tools arid plants are lent outside the Department, a hire charge of 5 per cent per menaum on the original purchase price of the plant should be levied for the entire period the plant is away from the Division concerned. In addition to the above hire charge, the borrowing Department must pay carriage charges of the toils sad Ideate both ways and be responsible for the coat of running repairs as distinct from special overhaul. The cost of special overhaul should be borne by the Division to which the plant and machinery belong.
(c ) No stores should be sold the any private individual or to any Non-Buildings and Roads body. The Buildings and Roads store is only meant for the works executed by Buildings and Roads and in no circumstances be given to any other individual or agency.
4.17. Every officer is bound to take charge of departmental stores which, from the death or departure of the person
lately in charge, or from any other cause, may be left at or near his station without adequate protection.
II—A requisition and manufacture of stores
4.18. Stocks, road metal and other materials required in ordinary course for the execution of sanctioned works may be procured on the responsibility of the Divisional Officer with- out special authority subject to the provisions of sub-pars. Graph (3) below, though the Superintending Engineer‘s approval should be obtained to the measures proposed for the purchase of stock in large quantities. If the stores are to be manufactured a separate estimate for their preparation may be required, as laid down in paragraph 4.24 et esq.
(2) Once the necessity for the purchase of stores, with reference to the requirements of a particular work or works has become obvious, it is not business-like to make the purchase in driblets. A comprehensive indent should be prepared, and where stores of the same nature are required for more than one work in a Division the Divisional Officer should endeavor, whenever possible, to prepare a combined indent.
(3) once to purchase materials of any kind should not be issued by an authority lower than that of a Divisional Officer. The powers of officers to sanction purchase of stores, etc., are contained in Annexure A of chapter II of this Code. Should cases aries where a Sub-Divisional Officer makes a purchase in an emergency he should take immediate steps to get the purchase regularised.
(4) Care should be taken not to purchase stores much in advance of actual requirements, if such purchase is likely to prove unprofitable to Government.
419. The articles comprised under the head —Tools and Plant” can only be purchased or manufactured on estimates sanctioned by competent authority.
4.20 The general rules for the supply of articles required for the public service, whether of indigenous origin or otherwise, and instructions for the preparation and submission of indents and annual estimates of European stores are given in Appendix V. With regard to indents for stores obtainable from other departments attention is invited to rule 7 of Appendix V ad to paragraphs 422 and 4.34 of this Code,
Chap. V]	MISCELLANEOUS RULES -STORES.	[4.20
(2) The restrictions imposed by the Stores Rules do not apply to purchases made by or on behalf of Pakistan States, municipalities or Local Funds, excepting when the stores F purchased are paid for from Government revenues on behalf of Government or from funds advanced by Government .In the latter circumstances Government may, however, direct that the provisions of the Stores Rules need not apply. When & Buildings and Roads Department Officer caries out a work for any of the Local Bodies or States referred to above these rules shall apply, except when the local body or State specially desires to have the stores purchases otherwise and Government has accorded its approval thereto, which will be given only on the understanding that the stores must be approved by the officer carrying out the work before the purchase concluded.
(3) Sometimes the stories purchased and inspected by West Pakistan Stores Department have to be rejected. In such cases the final rejection of stores lies within the competence of the West Pakistan Stores Department alone as that Depart- mat is a contracting party, and it is not permissible for an .indenting officer or consignee to reject stores which have been accepted by that Department. In cases in which an intending officer, considers that grounds for the rejection of such stores exist, a full report should be forwarded immediately to the West Pakistan Stores Impartment concerned and the goods complained of should be stored pending investigation by that Department and the issue of final instructions as to their disposal. Should i be decided that the stores should be rejected, intimation to this effect will be furnished immediately to the contractor by the West Pakistan Stores Department, and he will be informed that the stores lie at his risk from the date of such rejections and. that if not removed within a fortnight of ‘rejection, the consignee will have the right to dispose of the stores as he thinks fit at the contractor‘s	risk	and	on	his	account.
      Cases frequently occur in which stores are dispatched to their destination after merely a visual examination at the contractor‘s premises, works or godowns on the understanding that their final acceptance or rejection shall depend on the results of the tests carried out at the Government test house. In such cases, if the stores are rejected the contractor will be informed at once, and the stores will lie at the consignee‘s depot at the contractor‘s risk from the date such rejection
       and if not removed within a fortnight of rejection, the consignee signee will have the right to dispose of them as he thinks fit at the contractor‘s risk and on his account.
       Similarly, Stores which are rejected by the Inspecting Officer appointed by the West Pakistan, Stores Department, after delivery under the terms of the contract for inspection at the consignee‘s depot, will lie at the consignee‘s depot at the contractor‘s risk from the date of such rejection, and if not removed within a fortnight of rejection, the consignee have the right to dispose of them as he thinks fit at the contractor‘s risk and on his account. —
       Stores rejected in the circumstances indicated, above and not removed by the contractor within the period allowed for such removal should be disposed of by the consignee, either by return to the contractor or in such other manner as he considers most suited to the circumstances in each case, with the least possible delay.
421. The policy of the Government of the West Pakistan is to make their purchases of stores for the public service in such a way as to encourage the development of the industries of the country, and especially of the West Pakistan, to the ut -most possible extent consistent with economy and efficiency. All indents for demands for imported materials should accordingly be carefully scrutinized by the sanctioning authority with a view to judging whether articles are being indented for from abroad which could equally economically and satisfactorily be obtained from local manufacturers.
       All indenting authorities should send their indents, with five spare copies, to the Director of Industries (Store Purchase Wing).
(2) It often happens that the stores received from abroad through the Director of Industries discharged from a steamer in Pakistan in a damaged condition or deficient in quantity and in order to avoid serious Loss to Government thereby, the Government Agent at the port of landing should be instructed in every case to examine carefully the packages landed. If the goods are received in good condition and intact a ‘good condition” certificate should be furnished by him along with the goods. Rut in case deficient or damaged cargo is discharged from the vessel, or the same appears to have been tampered with, he shall cause a survey to be held by representatives of all
Chap.‘	MISCELLANEOUS RULES STORES	4.22
      interests concerned and furnish to the consignee a survey report in the following form
‘Proceedings of the Committee of Survey assembled at
on - dated for the purpose of examining and reporting on the under mentioned cargo landed ex	SS 	from		voyage No.— dated-		arrived at
port from on	
 Members of the Committee—
(1) Representative of the shipping company.
(2) Representative of the consignees.
(3) Representative of the Port Trust, if concerned. The committee having met proceed to examine the Packages and find them as follows: —
Number or marks .f packages .Description of contentsSynopsis of receipt given to shipWhether protest noted and extended with datesRemark as to cause of damagedEstimated coat of reconditioning or replacement
Signed
(By all parties represented).
      N.B. In order to facilitate the settlement clams it is imperative that the above details should be given.
      The Assistant Controller of stores North Western Railway Karachi shall represent Buildings and Roads Department on such committee of survey.
      It is preferable to settle claims in Pakistan as far as possible but when a settlement cannot be reached in Pakistan a copy of the report should be sent to the Director of Industries (Store Purchase Wing) Lahore to enable him to formulate claims against ship owners aboard
4.22. Emergent indents on other Departments in Pakistan may be submitted only in cases of actual necessity (which
423—4-27	PUBIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE (CHAP-IV
Must be reported to the Superintending Engineer- when serious inconvenience could be likely to arise from the submission of indents in the ordinary way. Emergent indents will nevertheless be complied with at once on the responsibility of the indenting officer, and will then be submitted by: the corn: plying officer for the necessary countersignature, so that the Superintending Engineer may exercise a check over such demands.
4-23 All articles of iron work which have not to be obtained from abroad in accordance with the Store Rules and which cannot be conveniently made up in divisional workshops, may be procured on indent from‘ any Government workshop authorized to undertake work for other departments. The orders in the Store Rules regarding the Pakistan firms to which orders may be given for articles to be manufactured out of tin- ported materials, should be closely, followed, - 4.24. The manufacture or collection of material involving an outlay of Rs. 10,000. or upwards, must in all cases he covered by a detailed estimate showing the proposed out lay and the	material	to	be	received.
4.25. If the material be for -a work already duly ‘Sanctioned , or for reserve stock within the sanctioned limit for the Division, the estimate will merely require the approval of the Superintending Engineer, but in all other cases the estimate must be duly sanctioned	by	competent	authority,	as	though	for
an original work.
III-RESERVE OF STOCK
4-26. Where it is necessary in consequence of the delay that should otherwise occur in manufacture or procuring materials, to collect a reserve supply of stories and as these stores cannot be debited at once to any specific work since it is, not known on which work they may be used such stores may e accounted for in a suspense account stock .
4-27. ordinarily, materials should be purchased only for works in progress, and petty stores obtained, it possible, from a supplier who should enter into a contract for them at schedule rates, and no reserve of stock should be kept. But in the case of any Division in which, owing to it-s remoteness from markets or for any other reason, it may bee considered absolutely necessary that a reserve should be maintained a limit of
reserve stock will be fixed by competent authority, and, when this has been done, the Divisional Officer is authorized, subject to the approval or sanction of the estimate therefore where required by the provisions of paragraph 4.25, to purchase or manufacture, to an extent sufficient to keep his stock up to that limit, the sanction of superior authority being required only when it is desired to exceed it. The fixed maximum should be kept at the lowest point compatible with efficiency, and the stock returns . of Divisions should be carefully scrutinized by Superintending Engineer from time to time with reference to this point.
Note.—The powers delegated to the various officers of the Buildings and roads Department to section maximum limits of reserve stock of a Division temporarily are given in Annexure B to Chapter II of this code
I V—Stock-taking
4.28 . It is not necessary that all the stores of a Division or of a Sub-Division, should be checked and, counted at the same time; and the stock-taking may be arranged so as to go on gradually in the manner most convenient to the officers concerned, but when checking the stores of any subordinate‘s section, the Sub-Divisional‘ Officer must check the whole and not a part only of the stores in that section. These checks and counts of stores should, as far as possible, be made without previous notice, so that the full value of a surprise check may be obtained. It is also essential that the greatest possible precision and accuracy should be maintained in the store returns, and the Divisional Officer should make‘ such arrangements as art calculated to ‘secure this result, and the Superintending Engineers are responsible that this is done The dates on which articles ‘ stock of are to be entered ‘in the store returns.
4.29 . As regards ‘the Sub Divisional Stores, the stocktaking will. be carried out by the Sub-Divisional
Officer in charge of the stores at least once within a period of one financial year.
       Important stares should, as a rule, be counted by an office not below the rank of a. Sub-Divisional Officer. The Superintending Engineer should occasionally‘ depute an officer from one Division to take stock of another. The ‘idea is that verification should be entrusted to an officer independent of and unconnected with the staff responsible for, the custody of the stores of surprise check
4.30 PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE [Chap. IV
4.31 All articles of stock (not including tools and plant which are Hot likely to be required during the following 12 mouths, should be reported to the Divisional Officer who will if necessary, take the Superintending Engineer‘s orders as to their disposal
430. All the stores of a Sub-Division must be checked each half year by the, subordinate in charge of the section. Each Overseer will prepare half-yearly distribution lists of stock and yearly for tools and plant showing the closing balances and will certify distinctly that he has checked the stores recording the results of such cheek. These will be submitted to the Sub-Divisional Officer, who will note on each distribution list whether or not he has also personally checked all the stores in accordance with the instructions in paragraph 418 and if not, will state the previous year or half year in which these stores were checked and the name of the Sub-Divisional Officer who made the cheek.
      See footnote an nest page.
Note—The word —checked” appearing in paragraphs 4 .28 and 4.30 means’ —counted” where the unit is numerical, —weight.” where it is weight and —measures where It I. linear, superficial or volumetric. A mere inspection to see that the articles are there ii not what is intended
(2) The half-yearly and yearly returns and distribution lists will be checked in the Divisional Officer and care taken to, see that all stores have been counted, and that the Sub-Divisional - Officer has checked a sufficient quantity. all the stores. of a SubDivision must be counted by the Sub-Divisional Officer (at least repeat at least once a year). A Sub-Divisional Officer transferred to a new Sub-Division should obtain the distribution lists for the proceeding one year or (two half years), as the case may be, from the Divisional Officer and note which stores, if any, remain to be counted. In the case of shortage of stores, it shall not be accepted as an excuse for not bringing home to any one the responsibility for the shortage that frequent transfers prevented any Sub-Divisional Officer from fully counting the stores in the Sub-Division. When one Overseer is relieved by another, the Sub-Divisional Officer must see that a distribution list of all stores in a Section is prepared, the stares counted and a certificate of the count given on the lilt by both overseers. The distribution lists will be carefully filed in the Divisional Office. (This is prior responsibility of Divisional and Sub-Divisional Officer and no Overseer be relieved tin it is done). ‘ While signing the Last Pay Certificate
 Chap.IV	MISCELLANEOUS RULES -STORES [4.3I)
certificate of an Overseer the Divisional Officer should see that the above orders have been duly complied with. At the same time he should ensure that the Last Pay Certificate is not delayed unnecessarily and it is issued within a week of the handing over of charge properly by the Overseer.
(3) So far as the. checking of stores by the Divisional Officer is concerned he should exercise a cent per cent check of stores at the Divisional Headquarter and to the extent of 10% at Sub-Divisional Headquarters and others. Disciplinary action shall be taken against the Sub-Divisional Officers and Divisional Officers for any declarations of, the above orders. If any large discrepancies or deficiencies are found in the stores account at any time all the Sub-Divisional Officers and Divisional Officers who had previously given incorrect certificate regarding the results of checks made By them will be held responsible. In their own interests therefore the officers concerned should carry out the above duties very carefully”:
V—Depreciations of plain and machinery
431. The following rates of depreciation for the articles of Tools, Plan and Machinery, etc., should be adopted for a period of five years.
For evaluation of working out cost.
For evolution of working our cost
S.NoDescriptionRate    1Scientific instruments (including Electrical and drawing instruments )5    2Plants and machinery10    3Tools15    4Navigation plan (except country boats5    5Country boats12    6Camp equipage10    7Livestock15    8Furniture in offices Rest house and Bungalows (except enameled articles)5    9Ditto Ditto Ditto10   10Motors Lorries and Cycles20
4.32 -4.35) PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE [Chap. IV
NOTE—(I ) Ii the case motor Lorries interest charges should be calculated at 6 per cent per annum on the capital coat.
Note—(2)	The percentage rate for depreciation mentioned above is with reference
to the original coat of the article, i.e., the value of the article is to be depreciated annually with reference to the original coat and not with reference to the reduced cast arrived at after making each year‘s reduction calculated at the fixed percentages shown above. The annual reduction on account of depreciation charges is only to be effected m respect of articles which have been actually used during any — of year concerned, except in the case of perishable articles such as office furniture, touts rope, eta., etc., in which case the reduction is to be effected annually.
4-32. Unless specially authorized to write off finally the irrecoverable value of stores, etc., Divisional Officers should in case of any robbery, loss or destruction by fire or otherwise of Public Stores, submit a report to the Superintending Engineer who will, if necessary, report the matter to the higher authority for orders. A copy of this report should be enclosed to ,Audit Officer. The Divisional Officer will, in every use, hold a departmental inquiry and recorded the evidence and his finding especially in the matter of responsibility and capability of the persons concerned
4.33 An immediate report of the loss of stores must also be made to the police, and all proper steps taken for the recovery of the property When an inquiry is held either by the police authorities or others, the Divisional Officer must, in cases where he is not himself authorized to write off the value of the property, obtain and forward, as soon as possible, to the Superintending Engineer,..a copy of the proceedings.
4.34 When stock materials are issued on account of works executed for the public and other departments, in workshops at their full value, an addition of 10 per cent must be made to cover charges on account of supervisions apart from stories not provided for in the rates fixed as per-paragraph 118 of West Pakistan Account Code. The 10 per cent supervision charge may, however, be waived by the officer empowered to sanction the sales in the case of surplus ‘stock, which, in his opinion, would otherwise be unsalable.
      In this paragraph the term —full value” means market value unless it is less than the value ‘at current issue rate in which case the latter should be taken. 4.35 At the end of each financial year, lists of surplus stores should be prepared and printed for circulation amongst all Divisional? Circle Regional ‘and other departments and
CHAP. IV)	MISCELLANEOUS RULES STORES [4. 37—4.38
       Railways, report all proper explanations must be given, and the period stated during which the articles have been in store or in use and the cause of deterioration.
Note (1) Ml stores of the same description should be town under the one item and one uniform issue rate fixed for it. Standard unite should be prescribed for all article of stores as far as practicable. For instance, , R. S Beams and other metals should be shown in the same lists either in cwts, maunds , or feet. similarly paints should be shown in tins, gallons or seers. Sub-Divisional Officers should personally see that the same units are adopted for articles of similar nature with a view to minimizing the number of units in nomenclature	as	for	as	possible.
Note (2) while declaring the stereo surplus detailed reasons should be given as to why the stores were purchased in excess of actual requirements and why it was not possible to do without them in the first instance. While furnishing these reasons to the Superintending Engineer, the Divisional Officer should send a copy of the list of surplus stores together with the date of purchase and reasons of declaring them surplus to the Audit officer (Director, Audit and Accounts(works), West Pakistan , Lohore.
4.35 When‘ stock materials have merely depreciated in value while remaining serviceable,
either through deterioration of quality or through a fall in market price, their book value should be reduced by writing off under proper sanction a sufficient sum to bring the book rate down to a fair market rate (but every step be taken to dispose of store before depreciation so that Government	is	not	put	to	loss).
4.36 Stores which are completely under serviceable, should be written oil and either sold by auction or destroyed, as may be ordered by the authority sanctioning the writing off. —When the unserviceable stores are destroyed the fact should be certified in the survey report as well a in the relevant registers by the Sanctioning Authority in whose presence the material will be actually destroyed.
1) 37. No public stores may be sold otherwise than by public auction, without the permission of the Superintending ding Engineer, Commission, which ordinarily not exceed 5 per cent may be allowed to the auctioner not being a departmental subordinate.
       Note—no stores should be sold to private individuals. For any stores issued to loss! bodies the cost thereof should be realised in sash before the materials actually transferred”.
VI—Mathematical instruments
2) 38	(1) All new instruments required for the Buildings and Roads Department, which
have been provided for in a sanctioned estimate, other than leveling staves, should normally be obtained by indent through the Store Purchase Officer, Lahore, but may be obtained locally with the approval of the
3) 39-4.40)	] PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT Code	(Chap. IV
Superintending Engineer, in emergent cases, and with the approval of the Chief Engineer in other cases.
4) ) New leveling staves should be obtained through the Store Purchase Officer, Lahore but if not available there, the Chief Engineer may, however, sanction local purchase of leveling staves only in emergent and exceptional cases.
5) )	Instruments requiring repairs may, however, be entrusted to a Local Manufacturing
Firm, after calling for quotations.
6) ) Instruments when the cost does not exceed Rs. 50 all indents of Mathematical Instruments should be accompanied by a certificate by the indenting officer to the effect that the supply of articles detailed therein is covered by a sanctioned estimate.
4-39. All officers and subordinates to whom surveying and mathematical instruments are entrusted will be held per- sonally responsible that they are carefully handled and maintained in good order. When repairs become necessary, the instruments should be forwarded to the Sub- Divisional or Divisional Office for the purpose without delay, spare instruments * being supplied for use in the mean time, if necessary. The cost of all repairs will be borne by Government, but where damage has resulted from negligence the officer responsible for damage should be made to pay for the damage done or otherwise suit- ably dealt with.
(2) Superintending Engineers should satisfy themselves that surveying and mathematical instruments in the various offices and Divisions under them are sufficient in number and are maintained in good serviceable condition, and that no instruments are kept in excess requirements.
(3) When any instrument is transferred, it should be care- fully examined before dispatch by the Sub-Divisional officer or the Divisional Officer, as the case may be, and no instrument which on examination proves to be out of working order should be transferred.
E—STORE KEEPERS
(4) 40 when the stores are sufficiently extensive, a store keeper will be appointed to the charge of them. The storekeeper will have nothing to do with the disbursement of cash the supply of materials or the preparation of bills. His duties will be confined to the custody, preservation and
Issue of the
      (4.41-4.44 MISCELLANEOUS RULES TRANSFER	CHAP. IV]
OF CHARGE
Stores under his charge, and to keeping the required returns relating to them.
F-Loss of Cash
441. imprest holders, Sub-Divisional Officers and Divisional officers should at once report any loss of cash o his immediate officers Divisional Officers and Superintending Engineers while reporting the loss to their immediate superior should send a copy of the same or such relevant extract from it as are sufficient to explain the exact nature of loss and the circumstances which made it possible. —A copy of the report should be endorsed by the Divisional Officer to the Audit Officer also”.
G-RULES FOR DIVISIONAL WORKSHOP
4.42. The Divisional Workshops may be treated as a District Sub-Divisional or they may form a portion of a Sub- Divisional charge, according to their size and importance. (2) No work is to be undertaken in workshops of the Department other than work required for the various branches of the Department, except under some general or special order of the Chief Engineer.
4.43. No work should be undertaken for municipalities or private parties before the whole estimated cost, including all charges for supervision profits, etc., that may be leviable under the rules for the time being in force , has been paid to the Divisional Officer or into a Government Treasury to the credit of the Division concerned of the Buildings and Roads Department. In all cases prior to work being put in hand, an undertaking should be procured from the party concerned that it will not hold the Department responsible for loss by fire or theft or any other factor which could not be foreseen when the estimate was prepared. In cases where it is found that the original estimate is likely to be appreciably exceeded, a revised estimate should be prepared and the procedure outlined above adopted.
H—TRANSFERS OF CHARGE
I—GENERAL
4.44 An officer must not delay making over charge after the arrival of the relieving officer; not must he, without a medical certificate or the permission of his immediate superior officer, leave the station before the arrival of his successor.
445. The relieving officer will take up the expenditure of cash and store from and for the first day of the account month during which the relief took place, and submit the next monthly accounts in the same manner as if he has been in charge during the whole month. But the relieved officer remains responsible that proper explanation is forthcoming for transactions during his incumbency
4.46.	. If the relieving officer fails to bring to notice within a reasonable period any
deficiency or defect in work of stores taken over from his predecessor, he will be held responsible .le for the same, both as to quantity and quality, so far as he was in a position to ascertain it.
Note- Reasonable periods during which a relieving sub-Divisional Officer, over seer, will make a complete cheek of all the works encroachments, road side materials and stores (including tools and plant) in hi. Sub-Division /section, and report defects or efficiency in regards to them will be S months from the date of his take over charge of the Sub. Division/Seaton. Failure to carry opt a complete inspection within this period will be regarded as a serious irregularity. In the case of hwy tract this period will be two months if the whiter months intervene.
447. In the case of any sudden casualty occurring or any emergent necessity arising for an officer to quit the Division, Sub-Division or work to which he is posted, the next senior officer of the Department present will take charge When the person who takes charge is not of the Indian Service of Engineers, Punjab Service of Engineers, Bahawalpur Service of Engineers, Sind Service of Engineers, Khairpur Service of Engineers, Provincial Service of Engineers, N-W-F- P, Temporary Service of Engineers of old Balochistan State Union, including Temporary Engineers of all integrating Units, Subordinate Engineering Service, he must at once report the circumstances to his nearest departmental superior, or, in the absence of such an authority, to the commanding officer in a Military Station, and in —other cases, to the nearest civil officer, and obtain orders as to the cash in hand, if any.
4.48- A register of incumbents of charges should be kept in every (circle office) and Divisional Office showing the period of incumbency of each officer who has held charge of the Divisional and of the several ‘Sub-Divisions, and, in each Sub- Divisional Office, a similar register of the incumbents of that. Sub-Division (and also of the overseers).
II—Divisional and Sub-Divisional Officers
449. in the case of transfers of Divisional and Sub Divisional charges, the cash book or imprest account should
Chap. IV]	MISCELLANEOUS RULES TRANSFER 4.49
OF CHARGE-
be closed on the date of transfer and a note recorded ‘in it, over the signature of both relieved and relieving officers, showing the cash and imprest balances and the number of unused cheques, made over and received in transfer by them respectively. A copy of this note together with the following documents should be forwarded the same day to the Superintending Engineer in the case of Divisional, or to tlw Divisional Officer in the case of Sub-Divisional charges.
(I )	Transfer report Buildings and Roads Stereo Form No. 80 being used in the case of
Sub-Divisional
charges.
(ii) Receipt of stock, tools and plant and other stores under the immediate charge of the relieved officer Forms A and B being used for Divisional and Sub- Divisional charges respectively
(ii)i A detailed report (Buildings and Roads Stereo Form No. 35 on the state of surveying and mathematical instruments. In the case of transfer of Divisional charges this report should be in respect of instruments at headquarters only.
(2) The receipts of cash and stores balance should be prepared by the relieved officer, but the relieving officer should note any in-accuracies therein so that the Superintending Engineer or the, Divisional Officer, as the case may be, may pass such orders in respect of any deficient articles as may be necessary A copy of the receipts may be (given to the relieved	officer,	if	desired	by.	him.
FORM A
      Received in transfer from A. B, Late Divisional. Officer,	
Division, the stores in his personal charge as detailed in the annexed list.
      The balance returns of stock and fools and plant in. charge, of all Sub-Divisional Officers for the half-year and year ending		respectively are on record, and
the Divisional stock returns have been prepared to end of 	
C. D,
Divisional Officer,
(Station and date)	Division
PUBLIC WORKS-DEPARTMENT CODE [Chap. IV
FORM B
      Received in transfer from A. B., late officer-in-charge  Sub-Division, the stock and tools and plant which have been in his personal custody, as detailed in the last balance return and accounts of receipts and issues to date. The returns for the year ended ,	
the half-year ended 		and for the month of 	for the whole Sub Division
have been submitted to the Divisional Officer and the account of daily receipts and issues for the current	month	has	been	written	up-to-date.
C.D.
Relieving Sub-Divisional Officer.
(Station and date.),
4.50. The relieving officer should then, unless otherwise ordered, proceed with the relieved officer to inspect the records, cash, stores, works and materials at site of works, Incharge of subordinates but in the case of the transfer of a Divisional charge, the relieved officer should accompany the relieving officer in the inspection of the outstation only when so directed by the Superintending Engineer. The relieving officer should examine the accounts, count the cash, inspect the stories and count, weigh and measure certain selected articles, in order to test the accuracy of the returns, and should minutely examine the works in progress as o their quality, and as to their accordance with the sanctioned plans and estimates; he should also record his opinion as o the correctness of the accounts of materials at site.
4.51. The relieved officer should further give the relieving officer a list and memorandum showing all the works in hand and the orders remaining to be complied with and of such matters as particularly require his attention, with full explanation of any peculiarity of circumstances, or apprehended difficulties. He, should also furnish the relieving officer with a complete— statement of £11 unadjusted claims, with reasons for their not having been adjusted in due course, and a report as to any complication likely to arise owing to their non-adjustment. This should be given by all officers starting from Regional Engineer to Overseer sending the copy to the immediate officer before handing over the charge.
CHAP. IV) MISCELLANEOUS RULE -TRANSFER (4.52-5.57
OF CHARGE
4.52. The relieving officer, in reporting that the transfer has been completed, should bring to
notice anything irregular or objectionable in the conduct of business that may have come officially to his notice. In the case of the transfer of. a Divisional charges he should describe the state of the records cash stores and works, mentioning what outstations he has yet to inspect, and when he proposes to visit each.
4.53. The relieving Divisional Officer should mention specially in his transfer report whether the accounted may be considered fairly to represent the progress of the works^
4.54. In the case of transfer of a Division, the detailed report of completion of transfer should,
except in special circumstances, be submitted within a fortnight of such transfer. ‘In the case of any disagreement between the relieved and relieving officer, a reference should be made to the Superintend- lug Engineer. The fact of taking over charge should, however, be reported (in form No. Stereo A. G). 75) as	soon	as	the	transfer	is	completed.
4.55. The transfer report of a Sub-Divisional charge should, on receipt by the Divisional
Officer, be scrutinized by him; any remarks necessary )being entered in the column provided for that purpose. The report should then be forwarded to the Superintending Engineer who, after passing such orders, as may be necessary, should return it to the Divisional Officer for record in the Divisional Office.
4.56. In the case of a Divisional or Sub-Divisional charge becoming vacant by the death or
sudden departure of the officer in-charge, the succeeding officer should take action as above prescribed and assume charge, forwarding to the Superintending Engineer or Divisional Officer, as the case may be, the	receipts which would otherwise be given to the relieved officer.
III—Reconstitution Executive or Sub Divisional charges
4.57. When in consequence of the reconstitution of executive charges or of any other
arrangements, the rules laid down in paragraphs 4.44 to 4.56 will apply mutatis mutandis and the instructions laid down in Appendix VII shall be observed when the accounts of two or more Divisional or Sub- Divisional Officers are to be amalgamated or those of any office are either to be broken up info parts or closed. :
4.58) 4.59 PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT (CODE [CHAP. IV
IV—other officers
4.59) In the case of transfers of charges other than Divisions and Sub-Divisions, the Divisional Officer should issue instruction as to the works to be jointly inspected by the relieved and relieving officers
4.60) Special attention should be paid by all officers, especial ally Sub-Divisional Officers, to ensure that in cases of transfer the tools and stores Incharge of a subordinate are made over correctly to his successors and receipts taken from the relieving subordinate. This is necessary in order to fix responsibility for the loss of stores on the particular person.
4.61) Accordingly, when one subordinate makes over charge - to another of a section of a subdivision, stereo, Buildings and Roads No. 148 a joint transfer report, accompanied by the relieving officer‘s receipt for the stock and tools and plant which have been in the custody of the relieved officer, should be submit d to the Sub-Divisional Officer. The Sub-Divisional officer will scrutinize the receipt and compare it with the Sub- Divisional returns before submitting the transfer report the Divisional Officer for orders. The Sub-Divisional Officer will countersign a. copy of the receipt and forward it in due course to the relieved officer. The transfer report will be finally	recorded	in	the	Sub-Divisional	Office.
     I—HEAVY EXPENDITURE AT THE END OF THE YEAR
 4.62) Disbursing	officers	should	refrain	from	incurring
hasty and ill-considered expenditure at the end of the year wit the mere object of spending their grants. They must realize that it is contrary to the public interest to expend money in a hurry, mainly for the reason that it is at their disposal, and that it is far more in the public interest to surrender money that cannot be profitably utilized in order that it may be diverted to other works which would otherwise have to lie over for want of funds. They	should	therefore	surrender	freely	all
-money which cannot be expended advantageously and as far as possible include provisions for lapsed grants in the estimates of ordinary expenditure for the next year. Expenditure during June be so regulated that it will on no account exceed double the average monthly expenditure for the previous 11 months of the year. - The limit be increased in some special circumstances t three times the average monthly expenditure of the last eleven months-.
MISCELLANEOUS RULES -HEAVY	(4.59
EXPENDITURE AT THE END OF THE YEAR
      (2) Disbursing Officers are assured that failure to spend the total grant allotted to them will not in ordinary circum - stances count against them in any way but excessive expenditure incurred more than permitted as above in last month of the financial year will go severely against the	incurring	officer	and	must	be	avoided	at	all	costs.
      (3) Disbursing officers should familarise themselves with the procedure under which lapsed grants pass in to the budget of the following year and the method of obtaining the grants as described in paragraph 13-8 of the Punjab Budget Manual (Fourth Edition).
127
