CHAPTER V
POWERS OF SANCTION OF THE WEST PAKISTAN
GOVERNMENT IN THE BUILDINGS AND
ROADS DEPARTMENT AND OF THE
AUTHORITIES SUBORDINATE
TO IT.
I—FUNDAMENTAL CONDITIONS.
51. The Government of West Pakistan exercises by virtue of the constitution of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, full powers of sanction in regard to provincial public works expenditures other than that incurred in connection with the residences of the Governor and has invested the authorities subordinate to it with powers in respect of that expenditure by means of rules and delegations which, except in regard to certain establishment matters, are detailed in this Chapter.
52. The essential conditions which must be fulfilled before the commencement of the execution of any public work are:—
(i) There must be an act of sanction of an authority competent to sanction; and
(ii) There must be an act of appropriation of funds for the purpose by an authority competent to appropriate.
See also paragraph 2-82.
53. A group of works which forms one project shall be considered as one work, and the necessity for obtaining sanction of competent authority to such a group of works is not avoided by the fact that the cost of each particular work in the group is within the powers of sanction of any authority thereto subordinate
IL—Commencement of work in anticipation of detailed estimates of the complete project.
54. (a) In exceptional cases where it is desirable to commence work on a- project which has
been administratively approved, and funded before the detailed estimate for the whole project has been prepared, it is permissible for the authority competent to give final technical sanction to the
CHAP. V]	POWER OF SANCTION GENERAL
project as a whole to accord sanction to detailed estimates for component parts of the project, subject	to	the	following	conditions:	—
      (i) For each such work or component part there must be fully prepared detailed estimate and, in the administrative approval as a whole, there must be a clear and specific amount corresponding	to	the	work	or	component	part	in	question.
      (ii) The amount of the detailed estimate must not exceed the amount included in the administrative
approval	by	more	than	5	per	cent,
      (iii) The sanctioning authority must be satisfied, before according sanction, that the amount of the technical sanction for the whole project is not likely to exceed the amount of the administrative approval and that the work or component part in question can be appropriately commenced without affecting or being affected by any other part of the project, financially or otherwise.
      Note—This rule does not apply to estimates for parts of individual buildings unless the preliminary estimates for administrative approval have been similarly prepared,
      (b) Divisional Officer shall ensure preparation of and Technical Sanction to detailed estimates as soon as the work is administratively approved and funded. For this purpose, the register of works administratively approved should be maintained and entries made therein initiated by the Division al Officer.
5.5. Ta obviate delay in commencing work on a detailed estimate for Complete project which has been prepared and submitted for technical sanction, but which requires minor amendments in the design or estimate, the sanctioning authority should adopt one or other of the following courses	:	—
      (i) Amend the design or estimate in his own office and sanction it; or
      (ii) Sanction the parts of the estimate which are approved subject to conditions (ii) and (iii) specified in paragraph 54, and call for amended detailed estimates, for the other portions of the project
5.6. In communicating the sanctions to parts of projects accorded under the provisions of paragraphs: and 5.4, and 5.5, the
5.7—5.8]	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE
sanctioning authority should also intimate to the Audit Officer the amount administratively approved for the whole project. 111-Commencement of works in anticipation of the orders on the public works budget.
51	. Pending receipt of intimation of the budget grant for the year, disbursing officers n the
Buildings and Roads Department are authorized to under take work and incur expenditure subject to the following limits:
I—All original works in progress at the end of the previous financial year may be continued.
11—All original works for which an appropriation was made under proper authority in the budget estimate of the past year, but which may not have been begun in that year, may be commenced iii the new rear; the expenditure on account of any such work, in anticipation of -orders on the budget estimate, not being allowed to exceed the amount of the previous year‘s appropriation or the amount entered in the budget estimate of the current year, whichever is less.
III—-Expenditure may be incurred on annual repairs to the extent of the previous year‘s allotment under each of the budget sub-bade, provided that dose not exceed that entered in the budget estimate of the current year. - -
IV—Expenditure may be incurred under Pay of Officers’ and ‘Pay of Establishment’ according to the scales sanctioned and provided for by the vote of the Parliament in he current year also for casual temporary establishment at the average monthly rate of the current year.
V—Expenditure on travelling allowance contingencies
and tools and plant may be incurred at the average monthly rate of the previous year. Note—As a matter of course all expenditure in incurred under those rules in anticipation of sanction to the annual budget estimates must be treated as a charge against the-grants eventually made.
B-Powers of Government in the ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT.
I-A administrative approval



5.8 Government in the Administrative Department concerned may accord administrative approval to expenditure on minor works in connection with the construction purchase
Chap. V]	POWERS OF SANCTION-GOVERNMENT	5.8]
ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT
      or conversion of buildings required as residences for officers connected with the administration of the province (excluding residences for the Governor and those required for Central Departments) in accordance with the principles set forth in paragraph 3.23 of this code and subject to the following conditions —
(a) that the standard rent as calculated under rule 523 of Admixture I to chapter III of this
Code does not exceed 104 per cent of the average emoluments of the class of Government Servant required to occupy the building;
(b) that assent of the Finance Department is not presumed to any such expenditure which is not likely to give an adequate return on capital cost by reason of either no rent being charged or the rent to be charged being less than that recoverable under the rules in Annexure I to Chapter III of this code and
(c) that the building is assigned to the holder of a specified post who is bound by the terms to live therein.
      Administrative Approval to cases of expenditure in respect of estimates classified as, Major Works will be accorded by Government in the administrative Department concerned only with the prior concurrence of the Finance Department which will require that conditions specified above are fulfilled. The scale of accommodation appropriate to the status of the prospective occupant may be prescribed by Government in accordance with any standard designs suitable for the various classes and grades of Government Officers.
(2) Applications for administrative approval for expenditure on additions and alteration to existing residential buildings should be submitted by the Head of Department concerned, giving reason why the proposals are brought forward to Government in the Irrigation Communication and Works Department which is the Administrative Department for purposes of according administrative approvals in such cases. The above rule, however, does not apply to the forest Department, in the case of which applications for administrative approval should be submitted to the Administrative Department concerned.
(5.8 PUBLIC Works DEPARTMENT CODE [Chap. V
(3) Expenditure on a residential building should, by strict economy of design, be, as far as possible confined to such a figure that the rent as calculated under the Rules in Annexure A to Chapter III of this Code shall fall within 10 per cent in the case of major works and 12/1/2 per cent in the case of major Works of average emoluments of the class of Government Servants who wilt usually occupy the building, calculated with reference to the revised scales of pay, since any outlay in excess of that limit involves loss to Government.
(4 ) In the case of an official residence except that of inferior whether newly constructed, purchased or hired puhkhas with their fittings (see paragraph 3.4) may be supplied, if asked for, in all rooms, which are ordinarily used by occupants, such as office, drawing, dining, dressing and bed rooms, studies and, Bodoirs and maintained by the Government. All other punkhas such as in the compounds, etc., and fittings, should be provided and maintained by the tenant. -
(5) (a) The Government does not undertake to maintain gardens attached to Government residential buildings (including leased buildings) other than those occupied by the Governor, but the cost of planting shade trees, and of transplanting soil in such portion of the compound as is meant for a garden, can be debited to public funds as capital expenditure on the property. Superintending Engineers and Divisional officers when preparing estimates for the construction of such buildings should see that the items enumerated below, or as many of them as are considered necessary, are provided for in them —
(i) Leveling ground,
(ii) constructing approach roads and	culverts,
(iii) Planting shade trees and hedges,
iv)	transplanting soil,
(v) sinking a well,
(vi) constructing irrigation channels,	and
(vii) erecting boundary pillars.
(b) Item (1) includes terracing where necessary, and preparing ground for sowing grass, planting shrubs, etc., but the tenant actual sowing and planting should be done by the tenant.
[CHAP. V	POWER OR SANCTION GOVERNMENT	5.9
IN THE ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT
      (c) The cost of items (1), (iii), (iv) and (vi) should not exceed Rs.100 (one hundred) per acre of land included in the compound.
(d) In the event, however, if no one being either in occupation of a residence or responsible
for the rent, or if the officer responsible for the rent has received permission to reside elsewhere and the residence is unoccupied the pay of a suitable, establishment, not exceeding one mali or one may, with the special sanction of Government in the Irrigation Communication and Works Department, be charged to the annual repair estimate of the building,
(6) The provision of fowl-houses and sheds or shelters of any kind for cows, sheep, poultry, etc., at the expense of Government is not ordinarily admissible, but these restrictions do not apply to buildings acquired in Murree for the accommodation of the West Pakistan Government officials, provided the full rent on the outlay involved is recovered from the tenant.
        Note—The provisions of sub- paragraphs (2), (4), (5). (b) (c) and (d) and (d) and 6 above do not apply to the residences of the Governor.
5..9	Government may, at its discretion, sanction the provision and maintenance of tennis
courts at the official residences of Commissioners and other high officials who have heavy obligations in the way of entertainment, as also for any other official residence for which tennis courts are considered necessary, provided that the authorized limit of the capital cost of the residence admits of the further expenditure involved, and that the rent is increased so as to cover both interests on the capital outlay incurred, and average actual maintenance charges for the past three years.
      The charges which may be admitted in connection with the provision and maintenance of tennis courts are
A—In regard to courts in the plains: —
      (1) Construction of the Court and of retaining walls
      where necessary;
      (2) Surfacing of the court with bajri grass, cement;
etc., at the time of construction. .
B—In regard of courts in the hills -
      (1) and (2) as in section A above; .
[510—511]	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE [Chap. V
(3) provision and erection of. posts and wire-netting for the purpose of enclosing the court and of permanently fixed posts for suspending lawn tennis nets;
       (4) provision and erection of fixtures and appurtenance for hanging screens; and -
       (5) maintenance of items (3) and (4) only.
       The cost of providing and renewing tennis nets, the marking of courts the provisions of screens, the maintenance of the surface of the courts and also the maintenance of items (3) and (4) in section B above, in so far as they relate to the court in the plains, should, on no account, be admitted as a charge against the Government. (See 324 of the Code).
Note—For the purpose of these rules, the maintenance charges shall be revised after every three years.
(b) Other Public Works—
510. Government in the Irrigation Communication and Works Department and other Administrative Departments may approve administratively expenditure on public works for their own departments other than residential buildings up to the limits and authorities detailed in annexure B to Chapter II
II—Technical
  (a) General-
511. In the case of works financed partly by Government and partly by contributions, the application of the limits given in paragraphs 512 to 522 shall be determined by the following considerations: —
I—If the work is undertaken by and on the responsibility of Government, i.e., if Government is to be the eventual owner of the work, the limits apply only to that share of the cost which, is met by Government.
II-If the work is undertaken on the responsibility of a local body, i.e. if the local body is to be the eventual owner of the work, the financial assistance given by Government is treated as a grant-in-aid. If the local body entrusts the execution of the work to the Buildings and Roads Department in accordance with the rules for deposit works, that depart -
[CHAP. V POWER OP SANCTION GOVERNMENTS 5.12.5.17
IN THE ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT
Department or any, other subordinate authority to whom such powers may be delegated, will be responsible for the technical sanction to the estimate and the provisions of paragraphs 2.103 and 2.105 will apply. . .,
(b) Original works-
5.12. Government in the Irrigation Communication and Works Department has full powers to accord technical sanction of detailed plans and estimates for projects and other original works, (other than Central), provided the requisite administrative approval as required by para. 5.8 to 5.10 and para. (7) of paragraph 3.26 has been previously accorded by competent authority (vide Annexure B to Chapter II of this Code) and the amount of estimate does not exceed the figure of administrative	approval	beyond	the	permissible	limits.
5.13. Buildings and Roads Department Officers in the West Pakistan have the same powers to accord technical sanction in respect of central civil works (including post and Telegraph works) as may be delegated to —them for Provincial works.
5.14. The powers of Government in the Irrigation Communication and Works Department to sanction estimates for military works are governed by the orders issued by the Central Government.
5.15. , The powers of Government in the Irrigation Communication and Works Department as
regards technical sanction to Famine Relief works are the same as for other Provincial Civil Works.
(d) RENEWALS AND REPLACEMENTS .
5.16. 1n the case of renewals and replacements of civil works, the powers of Government in the Irrigation Communication and Works Department are the same as for original works under paragraph 512.
(e) Maintenance and repairs—
5.17. Government in the Irrigation Communication and Works Department is competent to deal finally with all	estimates for	bonafied maintenance and repairs including
special repairs .
f)	Supplementary y and revised estimates—
1.1. Government in the Irrigation Communication and Works Department is empowered to sanction supplementary and revised estimate, provided the amount of the revised estimate and, in the case of supplementary estimates, the amount of the supplementary estimate when added to that. of the original estimate, does not exceed the amount of administrative approval for the project, beyond the permissible limit of 5
percent,—vide paragraph 2.7 and 5.21
5.19. No excess over a revised estimate sanctioned by Government in the Irrigation Communication and Works Department can be sanctioned without the concurrence of the Finance department
5.20. In cases where a substantial section of a project originally sanctioned by Government has been abandoned the aggregate assumed cost of the works included in that section should be excluded from the total sanctioned estimate before determining the amount of additional charge of She excess over the estimate. (See paragraph 2.83).
5.21. Government in the Irrigation Communication and Works Department is empowered to sanction an estimate technically, if the technical sanction exceeds the amount of the financial sanction by a sum not exceeding per cent (See also paragraph
5.22. Government in the Irrigation Communication and Works Department, is competent to sanction expenditure in any one year on the maintenance, Improvement, etc., of the residences of the Governor up to the limits and subject to the conditions laid down in paragraph	326.	of	this	Code.
111-—Stores
5.23. Government in the Irrigation, Communication and Works Department has full powers to purchase stores in accordance with the stores purchase rules issued by the Wes Pakistan Government -vide appendix V
5.24. The powers of Government in the Irrigation, Communication and Works Department in regard to the purchase of livestock and to the purchase, manufacture and repair of articles included under minor head —Tools and Plant” except the purchase of motor vehicles are restricted to Rs. 40.000 in any one case
[Chap.	POWERS SANCTION GOVERNMENT	[323.319
IN THE‘ ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT
5.25. Government in the Irrigation, Communication and Works Department is authorized to write off finally the irrecoverable value of stores lost by fraud or the negligence of individuals or both causes up to a limit of Rs. 5,000 in each case, and to write off losses of stock due to depreciation as opposed to actual losses up to Rs. 25,000 as per item C—write. Offs under VI refunds remission and suspension of revenue and write off in Appendix A to delegation of Powers in Annexure B of Chapter II of. this Code.
I V—Remission of Departmental charges
5.26. Government in the Irrigation, Communication and Works Department is competent to waive recovery of departmental charges for Establishment and Tolls and Plant on non- Government works executed in the Buildings and Roads Department, provided the actual works outlay is less than Its. 1,000.
Note—The Government of Pakistan having regard to the established convention In regard to petty claims as between different Government, have decided that in the case on non Government works estimated to cost less than Rs.1,000 which have been exempted from the levy of department charges by competent authority the charge of I per cent on account of audit and accounts establishment need also not be levied .
V—Miscellaneous powers
5.27. The miscellaneous powers exercised by Government in the Irrigation,
Communication and Works Department are detailed in annexure A and B of Chapter II of this Code.
5.28. Powers of the Chief Engineer, Regional Engineer Officer, Superintending
Engineers Divisional and Sub- Divisional Officers in the matter of according financial and other sanctions are given in Annexure A and B to Chapter II of this Code.
            In addition to the above, the Chief Engineer, Regional Engineer, Superintending Engineers, and the Divisional Officers exercise the following powers also:.—
Chief	Engineer,	and	Regional	Engineer—To	authorize
the undertaking of deposit works without limit, subject o rules in paragraphs 2.103 to 2.106
5.29. Superintending Engineers—(1) to sanction necessary alterations in the
constructive details of works during
PUBLIC WORK DEPARTMENT CODE [CHAP -V
their executions, provided that such alterations do not cause an increase of charge beyond the limit of their powers to deal finally with excesses over estimate,—.as laid down in powers delegated for technical sanction in Annexure A and B to Chapter II of this Code
5.30. To‘ sanction deposit works up to Rs. 50,000, provided the rules in paragraphs 2.103 to 2.106 are strictly observed:—
5.31. To sanction emergent repairs or other works to any reasonable and necessary amount! in case of imminent danger to the structure.
5.32. To pass indents on other Departments for articles required for sanctioned works^ and to forward indents for Foreign stores direct to the Director of Industries.
5.33. To permit alteration in declared date of birth due to clerical errors, as laid down in annexure A and B to this Chapter.
Divisional Officers—(1)	To sanction trifling alterations in the constructive details of work
during their execution in case of necessity, reporting as a general rule, his action to the Superintending Engineer.
(2) To undertake deposit works up to the following limits; subject to the rules laid down in paragraphs, 3.103 to 2.106:—
      Selected Officers
       Non-selected Officers
 (3) To purchase or manufacture stock sufficient to keep the stock of the Division up the reserve limit or which may be required for use on any sanctioned work (Paragraph 4.27).
(4) To submit to audit, bills of contingent charges of their Divisions, excluding special contingencies up to a limit of Rs. 600 per month, bills exceeding Rs. 600 to be submitted ft the Superintending Engineer, for sanction which will be signified by that Officer countersigning the bill.
(Referred to in rule 5.29 (5) of buildings and roads department code)
Auditor general‘s Direction. For the preparation and submission of the
Annual establishment return
1. The detailed statement of permanent non-gazetted establishment commonly known as the Annual Establishment return, will be prepared in Form A. It will show accurately the establishment as it exists the 1st April. .
2. The particulars in respect of all members of the establishment holding permanent posts, whether on duty or absent on foreign service leave or deputation or in temporary posts elsewhere or under suspension or in transit to another office, should be entered in the appropriate columns, with the exception of the following classes of Government servants:—
(a) Government servants for whom records of service are maintained in the Audit Office;
(b) Government servants for whom service books are not required to ho maintained,
3. The return should show accurately the sanctioned scale f permanent establishment and so will include every post, whether filled or not]! a post be vacant, the word —vacant” should be set against It in the column —Name of incumbent”. Posts sanctioned but not filled	should be	detailed at the	foot	of the return.
4. There should be a separate return for each permanent establishment and not more
than one establishment should be exhibited on a single page.
5. The names should be entered in order of sections of the establishment. There
should be a separate total for each section and a grand total for the whole establishment.
6. (a) In column 1 to general orders should be entered once only, any other order
should be entered against every entry which it supports.
      (b) The date to be entered in column 2 is the date from which the Government servant has held the post continuously in an officiating, provisionally, substantive or substantive capacity, as the case may be.
      (c) Personal pay should be shown on a separate line immediately below the entry of pay in column 8, the orders of the competent authority sanctioning U being quoted In column	1.
      If the pay entered in column S Includes an increment allowed with effect form the let April, the entry should be checked with the increment certificate which would accompany the April, bill.
7. When the pay of an establishment, or of an individual Government servant, is met partly by Government and partly by local or other funds, the whole pay should be shown in the return and the portion payable from each source specified in a foot-note.
ANNEXURES]	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE [CHAP. V
8. The name of a Government servant officiating In a post and the amount of additional pay for officiating drawn by him need not be shown unless the additional pay for officiating counts for pension. -
      In the case of an establishment on a time-scale of pay the names of a Government Servants not belonging permanently to the cadre but officiating in permanent posts or holding temporary poets should be included with an indication of the nature of the vacancies they fill.
      If the officiating incumbent holds a permanent post on another establishment, the fact should be stated and the entry should be supported by a certificate from the head of that other establishment.
9. it a Government servant on the establishment has attained the age of compulsory
retirement, the number and date of the orders of the competent authority permitting his retention in service should be quoted in a note at the foot of the return, The period for which retention has been authorized or for which leave beyond the age of compulsory retirement has been granted should also be mentioned. If no orders for his retention have been received the number and date of the application for sanction to his retention should be noted.
10. A statement in Form B should be appended to the return, showing with relevant particulars, the names which did not appear In the return of the previous year and those which appeared in the return of the previous year but are now omitted, as well as the names of Government servants who were on leave or under suspension during the previous year.
      If a Government servant was transferred more than once in the preceding year, the name of each office and post in which he was employed during the year should be mentioned with dates in column 2 od the statement. II. As the return will be the Chief authority by which pension claims will be tested later, both the statements (Form A and B) should after completion be checked carefully with the service books and a certificate of this check should be endorsed on each.
12. In the case of establishments borne on a provincial or amalgamated cadre separate returns should be furnished to the Controlling Officer, who should consolidate them into one return. The certificate of comparison with service books on the consolidated return should be as follows:. —
13. The return should be transmitted to the Accountant-General as early as possible after 1st April and In any case, not later then 15th May,
Note—in the case of establishments on time-scales of pay the accountant General may require	the	submission	of	She	return	in	duplicate.
14. These directions apply in respect of local funds establishments the claims to pension for which are submitted to the accountant General for verification of service ad report .
240
Chap.V
Form A
DETAILED STATEMENT OF THE PERMANENT ESTABLISHMENT OF THE .. ..AS IT
STOOD ON 1ST APRIL 19
     1     23     4     5     6     7     8     9    10Order of competent authority creating the postDate of appointment of present incumbent to post with indication of nature of appointment (e.g officiating provisional or permanent)Name of section and postDate of incumbent’s birth by christen are (as near as possible)Serial num bears of posts in each className of incumbentPay of postPay of present incumbent and total of each sectionDate of last incrementRemarks (including note of efficiency bar where applicable)
      Compared with service books and fond correct
Signature of the Head of office
      ANNEXURE .A PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE Chap.V
Form A
STATEMENT OF NEW LEAVE ETC
     1     2     3     4     5     6New namesForm what office and on what date transferred or (in the case of new entrants ) with what bill the health and age certificates were furnishedName which were in form a of the previous year but are now omittedFrom what date cases to be borne on the establishment and whyNames of Government servants who were on leave or under suspension during the previous yearDescription and period of leave or suspension (form and to what date whether it has been expertly declared that) the suspension period will count towers pension
Compared with service books and found correct
Signature of the Head of office
(REFERRED TO IN BLUE 5.29 (5) OF BUILDINGS AND ROADS
DEPARTMENT CODE)
1. In regard to the date of birth a declaration of age made at the time of, or for the purpose of, entry
into Government service shall, as against the Government servant in question, be deemed to be conclusive unless he applies for correction of his age as recorded within two years from the date of his entry into Government service. Government, however, reserves the right to make a correction in the recorded age of a Government servant at any time against the interests of that Government servant when It is satisfied that the age recorded In his service book or in the History of Services of a gazetted Government servant Is Incorrect and has been incorrectly recorded with the object that the -Government servant may derive some	unfair	advantage	there	from.
2. The orders in this annexure have effect from 4th July 1928. With regard to persons In
Government service on that date one year from that date was allowed within which they could apply for correction	of	their	recorded	date	of	birth.
3. When a Government servant, within the period allowed, makes an application for the correction
of his date of birth as recorded, a special enquiry should be held to ascertain his correct age and reference should be made to all available sources of information, such as certified copies of entries In the municipal birth register, university or school age certificates janam parties or horoscopes. It should, however, be remembered that it is entirely discretionary on the part of the sanctioning authority to refuse or grant such applications and no alteration should be allowed unless it has satisfactorily been proved that the date of birth as originally given by the applicant was a bonafide mistake and that he has derived no unfair advantage there from
4. The result of every such enquiry should, in the case of non-gazetted servants, be briefly stated in
their	service	books	and	If	a	correction	is	sanctioned
the	fact	should	be	reported	to	the	Accountant.	General,

