APPENDIX-II COTD
No of formsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil1234527Correspondence re grading hot weather leavePermanently 2Permanently28Correspondence re grading hot weather establishment229Correspondence regarding promotion recommendation roll of permanent and temporary establishment etc .Letters forwarding and acknowledging receipts of P.R roll books etc230Report of inspection of the Sub
-Divisional of officer and correspondence relating there to5Stereo B. and R.
No. 11.30-ATransfer papers of Divisional and Sub Divisional officers631Report of inspection of the Divisional office by the superintending Engineer and the Director Audit and Accounts (Works) west Pakistan and correspondence there to5Stereo B. and R.
No. 6132Quarterly postal guide133Quarterly telegraph guide134Counterfoils of telegraph messages1
APPENDIX -II
APPENDIX-II CONTD
No of formsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil1234535Classified list o f state Railway Establishment and destruction return of establishment of all Railways Railway Department s (Railway Board).Permanently
1Permanently36Attendance Register137Government of Pakistan Gazette18Counterfoils of passes of permission to occupy buildings and Roads Department Rest Houses2Stereo B. and R No. 8739Annual statement of inferior pensionable servants in service on 1st April40Station correspondence book between the Divisional officers and sub Divisional Officers241Nil forms242Composition passes243Small size Note books344Director General of Stores rate lists classes A to G345Annual Report of the Working of District boards3
  Note Books curtaining unimportant date and not be recorded for more than a year and may be destroyed at the end of this period after they have been carefully examined by the Divisional officer.
May be retained longer at the discretion of the Head of Officer

APPENDIX -II
APPENDIX-II CONTD
No of formsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil1234546Divisional progress reportsPermanently
3PermanentlyStereo B. and R.
Nos .51 and 5247Annual report of the working of public Health administration in West Pakistan3Ditto.48Registers of tenders received3Stereo B. and R.
No.349Transfer , etc order350Divisional officers acknowledgement of responsibility551Road inspector’s Note book352Annual Reports on the Railways in Pakistan553Annual Reports on the working of municipalities554List of officers occupying public buildings (copy)555Correspondence regarding minor works annual and petty repairs5 latest edition only to be retuned56GazetteersPermanently57Printed list of periodical returns due to and from Divisional and Circle officers5 latest edition only to be retuned58Punjab Famine CodeDitto59Army RegulationsDitto60Official Reports of the Legislative Assembly Debates and indices thereto10
APPENDIX-II CONTD
No of formsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil1234561Sounding Register of bridgesPermanentlyPermanently62Register of progress and instruction5Provided the sub Divisional officer certifies that no claim has been put in during 3 years (Buildings and Roads only.63Register of landPermanently..64Register of incumbentsPermanently..65Pass Book Saving bookTo be retained so long as the security pledged to Executive Engineers is not refunded to the person concerned..66Register of requisitions10 years..67Register of Service bookPermanently..68Register of property other than Government buildings owned by government which can be leased or letPermanently..69Register or voucher slips5 years..70Register of quinquinial revision of rents of residential buildings20 years..71Note books20 years..72Check Measurements statements5 years..
APPENDIX -IV
(REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 2.101
SANITARY RULES ON EXTENSIVE WORKS.
       1. On recruitment, members of a laborer force, including women and children attached, should be vaccinated against smallpox and receive anti-typhoid Inoculation. Should. Cholera be present anywhere In the Province they should also receive anti-cholera inoculation.
      Prior to engagement, inquiry should be made from individuals regarding bowel diseases, particularly chronic dysentery. Any individual suffering there from should be excluded from. The force. Such individuals are uneconomic from a labour point of view and are a danger to the force as a whole. So also are individuals infected with malaria. Spleen examination should be carried out en all candidates for work and any one suffering from enlargement of special should be	put	under	treatment	with	quinine.
      Malaria is a particularly dangerous diseases wherever large forces of labour are congregated and. especially where labour has been Imported into the area from outside and local condition are such as to permit of mosquito breeding. Every effort should be undertaken where necessary and every case of malaria, whether fresh or relapse, should be thoroughly treated With quinine.
      Precautions should be taken In the course of construction work of a vidocreating conditions	conducive	to	mosquito	breeding.
      2. The great requisites for preserving the health of workpeople may be conveniently considered under the following four heads, viz., shelter, food, water and conservancy. The measures which should be adopted on the actual appearance of disease, and specially of and disease likely to assume an epidemic, form, will be separately discussed.
      (a) Huts of sun dry bricks with chappar on top can be constructed at little expense In most parts of the country, and they will be sufficient for the accommodation of workpeople for short periods.
      In erecting them it is of great importance to select a good site high ground removed from Jungle but well provided with three ought to be chosen wherever it is available. The neighborhood of rank jungle grass or weeds is particularly to be avoided. The huts themselves should be raised on an earthen plinth of 2 feet; and with open spaces of at least 10 yards between different rows. When good natural site cannot be procured ,the drainage should be particularly attended to, whenever, owing to swampy or otherwise unhealthy situation, the sides should be carefully and thinly plastered with mud so as to exclude the night air, and In such circumstances it will also be advisable that the people should sleep on raised costs
      It is very important that then should be no overcrowding; each person should be allowed at lease 54 superficial feet and care should be taken to see that the huts are kept clean and in good order
      (b) As regards food, no special managements will be necessary in places where the work- people can draw their supplies from a neighboring market without any difficulty. 265
      Where no such facilities exist, It will be advisable o organize a bazaar and to see that the food provided is suitable both as regards quantity and quality. It is of importance also to secure a sufficient variety and in addition to the ordinary staple articles of diet suchas atta rice dal ghee and condiments, such valuable additions to diet as meat, fowls, fruit and vegetable should not be omitted.	A	supply	of	good	milk	is	necessary.
(c) Good and pure drinking water Is of hardly less consequence than good food. Wells should be covered and fitted with sonic form of apparatus for drawing water which does not necessitate the introduction into the well of any vessel or bucket handled by any individual able.
A	hand pump	or	hand persain wheel is a suit form of	apparatus.
If the	only	source	of	water-supply be a	pond	It should	be	adequately
fenced off; water should be pumped from it and led through clarification and chlorination tanks a	to	a	storage	and	distribution	tank	with	tapes.
(d) General cleanliness of the lines and their vicinity should be enforced . As the encampment will probably be constantly moving with the progress of the work, it is often Impracticable to establish regular latrines. Under the circumstances the trench system most suitable. Every morning one or, more fresh trenches should be dug according to the number of people to be provided for. They should not be deeper than one foot and should be covered in daily. The greatest dangers likely to arise from trench latrines, are
(i) Contamination of water, and
(ii) Fly breeding.
      In selecting a place for trenches, it is indisputable then they should be removed as far as possible, consistent with convenience, from the water-supply.
      Fly breeding can be prevented if encrets be properly covered with dry earth immediately on deposition and the trench filled in ‘at the end of each day.
      The Importance of preventing fly-breeding cannot be over emphasized since flea are carriers of deadly disease, particularly bowl diseases, such as dysentery, typhoid fever and cholera.
   3.	The precautions referred to in the foregoing paragraphs, If carefully attended to, are
calculated to safeguard the health of the people employed.
      Should sickness occur in a labour force, that disease which are liable to assume epidemic proportions require special attention. The more important of these are:-
      Smallpox, cholera, plague, plague, influenza and enteric, relapsing and are brospinal fevers, but other infectious diseases require that special precautions be taken.
      On the occurrence of a case of infectious disease the patient should be removed at once to an Infectious Diseases hospital or Dispensary, If one exists in the neighboring station, and the District Medical officer of Health notified. The latter will arrange for the necessary measures to be undertaken for the immunization of contacts and the prevention ‘of spread of the disease. If there be no special hospital or dispensary for the
       reception of sucks case, the patient must be collated In a separated hut well removed from the main camp. All communications between the case and the camp should be restricted the absolute minimum. On termination of the illness clothing bedding and all other Infected articles should either be thoroughly disinfected or destroyed by burning according to the instructions of the District Medical Officer of health
       The occurrence of a case of choleras should at once be notified to the District Medical Officer of Health by telegram of through a special messenger. The patient should be Isolated. Body discharges should be received in respectable containing a suitable disinfectant and should be disposed of by burning or burial. All local sources or water supply such as wails should be disposed by treatment with potassium permanganate or chlorine according to the Instructions of the Medical Officer of Health. Articles of food awl drink must be protected from files and dust, and all water and milk boiled before consumption. Uncooked food, particularly fruits and salads, should be avoided. All individual should be inoculated against cholera as early as possible and contacts kept under surveillance for a period of at least a week all cases of diarrhea should be isolated, treated with Tombs’ Essential Oil Mixture —A”, and kept under observation.
Similar precautions must. be observed on the occurrence of typhoid fever or dysentery.
       Smallpox will not occur in a labour force if vaccination has been thoroughly carried cut on recruitment.
All cases of malaria should receive adequate quinine treatment.
Should plague occur the strictest precautions must be taken at
once to prevent Its spread. Cases mist he isolated, protective inoculation carried out and antirat and antifles measures instituted.
4. The following rules should be observed for the disinfection of biding and clothing
(1) All articles that may, be any chance, have come In contact with a case of infectious disease must
   be disinfected.
   (2) Straw, rags and articles of no value should be burnt.
   (3) clothing bedding! etc., should be completely immerse in boiling point for fifteen minutes the
clothing, should sub Sequent be dried in the sun.
(4) The cot, articles of furniture the, ‘floor, etc. should be scrubbed with a solution of per chloride of mercury 1: 1,000 or with a solution of carbolic acid 1:20 or with a solution of lzal 1.600, and subsequently washed
   (5) The room should be thoroughly aired and the walls lime washed.
5.	The general sanitation of the area in which a labour force of operation should be under the
control of the ‘District Medical Officer of health and a subordinate Health Officer should be specially engaged to Institute and supervise all health measures necessary for the wellbeing of the Workers.
6.	The question of general medical supervision apart from Infectious disease has to e considered,. It
Will be advisable that a Sub Assistant or Assistant Surgeon with a small hospital should be attached to each large gang, or set of gauge, of work. people. In most cases, a central
Appendix -IV	Chap. V]
      Establishment will be sufficient for several mike of work. The hospital should be reserved for treating accidents and eases of a trifling nature, in which complete recovery may be soon expected. As a rule, It will be better to transfer the sick suffering from more severe illness to the neighboring station where they can be better cared for. It is also necessary that the Assistant Surgeon or Sub Assistant Surgeon should be under supervision. Whenever circumstances admit of it, the camp should be frequently visited by the Civil Surgeon of the District. Even when distant, from his headquarters, it is very desirable that he should pay at least one visit In the month to ascertain that the Sub. Assistant or Assistant Surgeon is carrying on his duties properly. A weekly report should be submitted by the Sub. Assistant or Assistant Surgeon to the Civil Surgeon, Re would thus he informed of what as going on, and on the occurrence of any emergency his services would always be available when called for by the Engineer Incharge.
       (REFUND IN NOTE 3 TO P.F.R .8.3 AND P.F.R.15.2) RULES FOR THE SUPPLY OF AFT ICES FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE (PUNJAB STORIES PURCHASE RULES 1851.
PREAMBLE
      The policy of the Government of the Punjab is to make their purchases of stores for the public service in ouch a way as to encourage the development or the industries of the country In general and of the Punjab in particular to the utmost possible extent consistent with economy and efficiency, Condition regarding quality and price being equal, preference In making purchases will be given in the following order-
(i) Firstly, to articles which are produced in Pakistan In the form of raw materials or are manufactured in Pakistan from raw materials, produced in Pakistan; further preference should be given to article produced in the Punjab;
(ii) Secondly, to articles wholly or partly manufactured in Pakistan from Imported material materials further preference should be given to articles produced in the Punjab;
(iii) Thirdly, to articles of foreign manufacture held In stock in Pakistan provided they are of suitable type and requisite quality.
      (iv) Fourthly, to articles manufactured abroad which need to be specially Imported.
   Even when conditions of quality, and price are not equal preference should normally be given to articles which are produced In Pakistan too In form of raw materials or are manufactured in Pakistan from materials produced in Pakistan (Further preference to be given to articles produced or manufactured In the Punjab), provided the quality Is sufficiently good for the purpose and the price Is reasonable. But the assent of the Finance Department will be required In all such cases except where In any one case the total loss to Government. Involved iii purchasing the more expensive article of Pakistan manufacture does not exceed Rs. 200.
   In pursuance of‘ this policy the following rules, are prescribed: and except In the case of those stores and articles for the purchase of which special orders are Issued by the Punjab Government, these rules are applicable to all purchases of stores made through the Provincial Stores Purchase Department and to all purchases of stores made by the Heads of the Departments and other officers who are empowered to purchase stores whether through the Provincial	Stores	Purchase	Department	or	otherwise.
   Note (1)—For other instructions relating to perusable see annexure A Note (2)—Nothing In the following rules shall restrict the respectability of a officer of the Public Works Department to undertake works n an	emergency.
RULES
Rule I—officers or departments desiring to purchase stress shall submit their Indents to the Stores Purchase Department which shall place the order for purchase except when otherwise provided in the rules or where the Stores purchase officer authorizer the direct purchase of any articles which in his opinion can most conveniently or cheaply he purchased by Indenting officers. If their articles required are such as are not stocked or manufactured in Pakistan. The indenting officers is at liberty to make or manufactured in Pakistan the indenting officer is at liberty to make inquires from manufactures or their local representatives if any independently.
      of the Provincial Stone purchase Department, with a view to Indicating precisely in the indent details regarding specifications design etc, so as to assist the Department in placing the order speedily.
      Rule 2- Except as prodded for In Rile 7 all articles required to be purchased for the public service shall be purchased on the condition that delivery shall be made in Pakistan for payment in rupees in Pakistan.
      Rule 3 .‘tenders shall be incited in Pakistan and also abroad when considered desirable by the authority competent to place an order to purchase stores for the supply of all articles which are purchased under rules 2,4 and 5, unless a rate or running contract exists for the supply of the articles or unless the value of the order to be placed is a small or unless there are sufficient reasons which should be recorded in writing to indicate that it is not in the public interest to call for tenders no tender which fails to comply with the conditions as to delivery and payment prescribed in rule 2 above shall be accepted.
      The indenting officers should anticipate their needs and inform the stores purchase officer well in advance so that he may have sufficient time to cal for tenders and to make suitable arrangements for the supply of stores
       Note —The following procedure for inviting tenders shall be followed as far as practicable.
   (1) Tenders should be obtained
      (i) by advertisement (open tender)
      (ii) direct Invitation to a limited number of firms (limited tender),
      (iii) by Invitation to one firm only (single tender or private purchase)
      (b) Open Tender—or all cases in which the estimated value at the tender to be received is
      Rs. 5,000 or above tenders will be invited by public advertisement.
(e) limited Tenders- In cases in which the estimated value of the tender to be received is less than Rs.5,000 tender may be invited from a limited number of firms
(d) Single Tender- in the case of small orders or when the articles required are of a proprietary character and competition is not considered necessary tender may be invited from one firm only.
Rules 4- (a ) All articles whether manufactured in Pakistan or abroad shall before acceptance be subject to inspection by the consignee or the inspection committee appointed by Government or the stores purchase officer of such officer or officers as may be appointed by him in this behalf in case of a dispute however the decision of the stories have been inspected and passed except in cases otherwise provided for in the rules or where previous sanction of the Punjab government in the Administrative Department in consultation with the Finance Department for advance or earlier payment has been obtained.
   (b)	Inspection of the goods shall he carried out by the Inspecting Officer in such period as
may be specified in the order forms, and If no such period has been specified, the inspection shall be carried out within a week. of the date of the receipt of the goods by the consignee. The inspection
Appendix-V
Officer shall inform the contractor of the date on which he intends to carry out. the inspection, and shall also invite him to be present at the inspection if the latter so desires
      (c) When the contracted goods are delivered personally hr the contract tor or his representative, the consignee shall issue a receipt to him of the goods received and shall keep the material in safe custody till the tune of inspection. -
      (a) The inspection officer other than the stores Purchase Officer shall immediately inform the Stores Purchase Officer, and the contractor In writing about the goods rejected by him giving his reasons tot rejecting them. He shall also ask the contractor to remove the goods within ten days from the date of receipt of the information by him. After the expiry of this period the consignee will not be responsible for any data to them. If the goods are accepted, the bills of the contractor shall be paid by the indenting Officer within one month from the date of acceptance of the goods . The contractor shall be asked to replace the rejected goods within the period specified by the consignee. Intimation regarding rejection, replacement, removal of sooth, etc., shall be made by a registered notice, acknowledgement due. If on receipt of the registered notice of rejection, the contractor claims that the goods are in accordance with the specifications laid down in the order, or the sealed sample, he may prefer and appeal to the Stores Purchase Officer, under intimation to the consignee under registered cover within five days from the date of receipt of the notice. When such an appeal has been preferred the consignee will keep the goods in his own custody until final decision by the Store Purchase Officer, West Pakistan.. In case the goods have been inspected and rejected by an Officer or Officers of the Stores Purchase Department, the contractor may prefer an appeal to the West Pakistan Government in the Department dealing with the Stores Purchase Organization for final decision,
      Rule 5—(l) Except as provided in rule 7 of the rules, all plan and machinery shall be purchased in Pakistan though the Stores Purchase officer, West Pakistan. and unless otherwise agreed upon in any particular case, payment for the plant and machinery will be made by the Indenting: Officer as follows:-
        (i) eighty percent of the contract price will be paid on deliver; of the plant;
(iii) twenty percent of the contract price plus the cost of erections the erection has to be made by the supplier, will be paid on final Inspection and test or alternative the erection has to be made by the supplier option the full hundred percent will be paid after erection or and final inspection and test in the former case the supplying firm will be required to given undertaking to replace the machinery wholly or in part in case it is not up to specifications or dose not give proper performance.
      In exceptional cases, where payment of the 213 percent referred to in clause (ii) above is necessary above is necessary before required test are complete the previous approval of government the Administrative Department should be obtained ordinarily all test should be completed within 3 months of the supply of stores .
            Note- consent of the Finance department to the payment of the full value of stores prior to the requisite tests being complied with is not presumed
APPENDIX-V
(1) Iron end steel articles such as bridge ii den, root trusses. Roof trusses steel beams, rails angle irons or other sections shall be obtained in Pakistan only from firms approved by the Stores Purchase officer and entered in a list maintained by him for the purpose
(3) Purchases referred to in sub-rules (I) arid (2) above shall be made or arranged for r by the Store,‘ Purchase Officer in consultation with the indenting Officer in consultation with the indenting officer in case of disagreement he former may refer the matter to the head of the Department concerned and if the stores purchase officer and the head of the department will refer the matter to Government in the department dealing with the stores purchase organization
   Rule- 6-	nothing in these rules shall be deemed to prohibit the purchase of articles by one
   department from another.
   Rule 7-	When suitable purchases of plant and machinery or other r stores cannot be made
in Pakistan end the Stores Purchase officer certifies this fact an indenting department may obtain them from abroad through the supply and development department government of Pakistan, Karachi through which the arrangements for purchase shall be made.
   Rule 8-	In cases of emergency when inconvenience to the public service is likely to be
caused by waiting to obtain an article through the Provincial Stores Purchase Department, a competent authority may purchase in Pakistan articles not manufactured in Pakistan up (up to a limit of Rs 5,00 For purchases between . 500 and Rs. 1,000 he must obtain the sanction of the Head of his Department. The authority making such purchases or sanctioning such purchases must within 15 days inform the Stores Purchase officer of the reasons which led him to exercise these emergency powers. For direct purchases over Rs. 1,000 the previous sanctions of the West Pakistan Government in the Administrative Department dealing with the Stores Purchase Organization or the Finance Department as the case may be, must be obtained,
Note - term competent authority means an authority who has general special powers incur expenditure on the purchase of stores.
Rule 9 —Where for any article the Provincial Stores Purchase Department, has arranged a rate or a running contract, the Indenting officers shall obtain their requirements of that article in terms of the rate of the running contract and no indent should be sent to the stores purchase officer -
Rule 10—Subject to any rate or running contracts arranged by the Provincial Stores Purchase Department articles of the classes detailed below may be purchased direct from the- local market.
(1) Articles of perishable and fragile nature and inflammable and volatile articles.
(2) Spare parts of machinery and articles urgently required to effect repairs (not exceeding Rs. 100 in value).
(3) Articles In common use, provided the cost of a. particular article does not exceed Es. 100 In each case. Purchase should not unnecessarily be split up to snake their value Rs. 100 or lower,
(4) Live stock seeds, country carts yokes and country plough
(5) Material such as sand, kankar. store. lime. etc
273 [Chap. V
Rule 11-The West Pakistan Government in the Department dealing with the Stores Purchase Organization in consultation with the Finance Department, where necessary, may sanction a departure from these rules in any individual oases if the interests of the Public Service so required. All applications for sanction to such departures should be made through. the Administrative Department concerned:-
   Rule 12-Recoveries made from contractors on account of-
      (a) delay	In	supply	of	stores,	and
(b) excess cost of the repurchase when It is found necessary to cancel a contract, should in the first instance, be credited to a suspense head. When the amount is eventually determined it should be credited as revenue of the department concerned, or in the case of departments not having a corroding receipt head, under the head XXXII—industries Stores Purchase Department.
      Recoveries may, where. Stores are indented for on capital account be adjusted in reduction of expenditure under the capital major bead concerned.
Rule 13-All subordinate offices will submit to their respective Head of Department not later than the 1st May In each year an annual return of expenditure on Stores in the form in Annexure 6. The Heads of Departments w U consolidate the returns received from subordinate offices and forward to the Provincial Stores Purchase Department by the 1st June in each year a consolidated annual return In the same form after including therein the expenditure incurred by the head office. The Stores Purchase Department will in turn prepare a Provincial Government by the -1st August in each year. Instructions for the preparation of these returns are given In Annexure B and should be carefully observed.
      Rule 14-Officers from Pakistan who visit the United Kingdom in order to make enquiries with a view to arrange purchases, especially of machinery, should place themselves In touch with the Pakistan Stores Department, London, and Its experts.
      Rule 15.-The Provincial Stores Purchase Department is authorized to make purchases of stores on behalf of local bodies and commercial departments on payment of departmental charge. The rate of such charges shall be 2 per cent of the values of stores purchased when Inspection is carried out by the Department, even though periodically, and 1 per cent in other case. Local bodies should remit departmental charges by cheques or bank drafts in favour of the Assistant Stores Purchase Officer, Punjab Immediately after an order is placed on their behalf. Recovery of departmental charges from commercial departments shall be made by book transfer.
ANNEXURE -A
INSTRUCTIONS RELATING TO THE PREAMBLE
1. These rules express a definite preference for articles which are produced in Pakistan in general and in the Punjab in particular in the form of raw materials or are manufactured in the Pakistan from raw materials produced in Pakistan and also for articles wholly or partially manufactured in the Pakistan from Imported materials. They extend also a preference (but not in price) to articles of foreign manufacture stocked in Pakistan over those which have to be specially imported.
2. The difference in the character of the preference which may be given should be carefully noted. In the case of the first two categories mentioned in the Preamble, the condition is that the quality is sufficiently good for the purposes, and for the third category that the articles are of suitable type and requisite quality. This means that articles coming under the first two categories should be accepted, unless it is considered that the quality Is definitely not up to the standard required, even though • imported articles may be considered to be of better quality.
3. The other kind of preference referred to in those rules is price preference and it is enjoined that a limited price preference may be given to articles produced or manufactured in the West Pakistan in particular and in Pakistan in general either wholly or in part. It should be noted that no price preference should be given to articles falling in the third category over those which come within the last category.
4. A strict comparison with prices prevailing abroad is not required, but the underlying principle is that the preference to be accorded to West Pakistan or Pakistan products is to be tempered by considerations of economy and should discriminate between articles made from Pakistan and from imported raw materials.
5. Ordinarily a limited degree of price preference in favour of articles produced or manufactured in the West Pakistan in particular and in Pakistan in general will be justified for one or other or the following reasons
 (a) When the Industry in question Is expected to 611 a vital gap in the economic life of the country and Is likely to tale a firm root In the soil in the near future.
(b) To prevent any sudden dislocation of the labour market on a large scale.
(c) To regulate and control foreign competition specially during periods of temporary trade depression abroad.
(d) To counteract the advantage to foreign Industries arising from the depreciation of the currency of the of the in question or the like.
6 Price preference will be given subject to the previous approval of jibe West Pakistan Government or subject to such rides as may be prescribed by them
ANNEXURE -B.
(See Rule 13)
ABSTRACT RETURN OP EXPENDITURE ON STORIED
PURCHASE BY THE DEPARTMENT, DURING 19-19
1, (a) All subordinate offices will submit this return to their respective Heads of Departments not later than the let may in each year. -
(b) The Heads of Departments will consolidate the returns received from subordinate offices and forward to the Provincial Stores Purchase Department by the let June in each year a consolidated annual return in this form after including there in the expenditure incurred by the head office.
      (c) The Stores Purchase Department will in turn prepare a provincial consolidated statement	In	this	form	and	forwarded
   it to Provincial Government by the 1st August in each year.
      2. The return is intended to show the extent to which the requirements of the public services are being met by the purchase of stores of local and foreign manufacture of supply.
      3. The return should be accompanied by a short review by the Read of the Department explaining the cause of important variations under any head compared with the previous year. Heads of Departments are responsible for preparing the return from records of purchases in their own offices, and from the annual returns submitted to them by subordinate offices.
      4. Purchases should be recorded for the financial year during which payment was made, annas and pies should be omitted from the totals under each head.
      5. Efforts have been made to give an exhaustive classification in the return. If however, doubt arises as to the correct head to which any purchase should be allocated, reference may be made to the Stores Purchase Officer, West Pakistan,
      6. The Purchases made by the Stores Purchase Department en behalf of local bodies will be shown In a separate return.
7. The following purchases should be excluded from the return :-
   (a) Purchases of stores of foreign manufacture by one Department from another, and
   (b) Purchase of bricks and Pakistan lime and mortar.
Value of stores produced in Pakistan   Classes head and sub headsValue of stores purchased in the united kingdom or any other country aboard with name of countryValue of imported stores purchased in
PakistanCost of stores obtained from West Pakistan Government Departments and factoriesCost of goods obtained from sources other than those mentioned in column 4Remarks123     45     6A -Bridge works
B- Engineers plant excluding petty tools C- workshop machinery and heavy tools
     i	Machinery
     ii	Steam rollers
     iii Trucks
     iv Motor cars
     v	Cycles
vi Other vehicles F- Tools and stores not
Specially provided for under F.
a) Tools b) Stores -
1. Hardware and unmanufactured Lamps and lamwere other than glass parts
     2. Wire
3. Metals unmanufactured:. Brass Copper iron

Value of stores produced in Pakistan   Classes head and sub headsValue of stores purchased in the united kingdom or any other country aboard with name of countryValue of imported stores purchased in
    PakistanCost of stores obtained from West Pakistan Government Departments and factoriesCost of goods obtained from sources other than those mentioned in column 4  Remarks123       4       5       64.Metals unmanufactured Concld
     Lead Steel Tin Zion Aluminum Miscellaneous 5.Timber 6.Hides and skins 7. Leather and manufacture of leather
8. India rubber goods
9. Paints colors and varnishes
10. Lubricating oils
11. Grease
12. Furniture
13. Canvas tents tarpaulin and waterproof goods
  14. Cotton goods
15. Linen goods
16. Silk goods
17. Woolen gods
Value of stores produced in Pakistan   Classes head and sub headsValue of stores purchased in the united kingdom or any other country aboard with name of countryValue of imported stores purchased in
    PakistanCost of stores obtained from West Pakistan Government Departments and factoriesCost of goods obtained from sources other than those mentioned in column 4  Remarks123       4       5       618. Miscellaneous apparel and equipment including badges etc
19. Cordage ropes thread ball twines tapes etc
20. Chemicals drugs and medicals drugs
21. Scientific and surgical instruments
22. Earthenware glass glassware crockery and outlawry
23. Asphalt bitumen maxphalt etc
     24. Pitch and coaltar
25. Coal cake and other fuels
     26. Matches
     27. Cement
     28. Soaps
     29. Tallow
     30. Wax
     31. Wines and sprits
32. Mentholated spirit petrol
     33. Petrol
     34. Kerosene oil
35. Enamel wares

Value of stores produced in Pakistan   Classes head and sub headsValue of stores purchased in the united kingdom or any other country aboard with name of countryValue of imported stores purchased in
    PakistanCost of stores obtained from West Pakistan Government Departments and factoriesCost of goods obtained from sources other than those mentioned in column 4  Remarks123       4       5       6     35. Bruches
     36. Sanitary goods
     37. Steel furniture
38. Bakelite and allied goods
     39. Buttons
     40. Dyes
41. Jute hamp and their manufactured goods
     42. Bamboo
     43. Tazile yarns
44. Sewing machines and parts
45. Vernary instruments and appliances etc
46. Miscellaneous G. Electrical plants and materials
1. Electrical plant
2. Instruments and apparatus
3. transmission and destruction materials
4. electrical lamps fans etc
5. belts batteries etc.

Value of stores produced in Pakistan   Classes head and sub headsValue of stores purchased in the united kingdom or any other country aboard with name of countryValue of imported stores purchased in
    PakistanCost of stores obtained from West Pakistan Government Departments and factoriesCost of goods obtained from sources other than those mentioned in column 4  Remarks123       4       5       61. foodstuffs:-
     2. Foods
     3. Oilseeds
     4. Tinned foods
     5. Gnee
     6. Vegetable ghee
     7. Edible oils
     8. Fats
     9. Gut
     10. Sugar
     11. Spices
     12. Animal fodders
     13. Miscellaneous
     1. Miscellaneous
     2. Radio sets
gramophones musical instruments
     3. Weighing machines
         weights and balances
     4. Survey and drawing
         instruments
     5. Umbrellas
     6. Miscellaneous
APPENDIX - VI
(Referred to in paragraph 2.70 (2)
INSTRUCTION OF THE GUIDANCE OF SUPERINTENDING ENGINEERS ACTING AS ARBITRATORS
1. It should be remembered that reference to arbitration is intended to be an expeditious.
Inexpensive and decisive method of settling a dispute relating to a contract without resort to the dilatoriness, intricacies and complications of Civil litigation.. The Superintending Engineer when moved as arbitrator should, keeping these principles in view, do justice to the claims of both sides within the limitations imposed by the clause which empowers him to etc. -
2. The points which Superintending Engineer qua arbitrator should bear in mind in settling a dispute are as fallen:—
(a) On receipt of notice or letter of reference to arbitrator the Superintending Engineer should see that the letter of arbitrator and is signed by an officer competent to bind Government, i.e. by an officer not below the rank of Divisional Officer, He cannot, of course, refer the point for arbitration to himself. If satisfied that the points are clear and within his jurisdiction as arbitrator, he should then issue to both parties concerned notice of the date, place and time fixed for the appearance of the parties, or their representatives, and for the production of witnesses and documentary evidence) restating precisely the‘ points referred for arbitration and that those matters will be finally determined by him as arbitrator, and that if either party fails to attend the matter may be decided a-parts.
      In such notice it should be explained that he. as arbitrator, has no power to summon witnesses but that-if either petty requires the other to produce any documents in the possession or power of the other he must inform the arbitrator in good time (not less than seven days) before the date fixed as above
(b) He should thereafter, before arriving at, or in ally case before recording any decision, give each side further reasonable opportunity to adduce evidence, oral or documentary. which they may wish- to bring (in the presence of the other) and he should listen (within reason) to any arguments which they may wish to present at the conclusion of the evidence. These proceedings should be conducted in the presence of both parties to the dispute or their legal representatives. If, however, either of the parties is absent on any hearing of which he has had due^ notice, the arbitrator may proceed ex-parte , after recording a formal order to that effect. The Superintending Engineer should keep a brief note of the proceedings recording to the pretence of the parties before him and the fact of his having conformed ‘to the procedure herein suggested. He should also record briefly the statements of witness. But subject to these observations the proceedings may be conducted with out any special formalities.
APPENDIX-VI	Chap-VI
(c )	When the dispute is ripe for decision the Superintending Engineer should give a
decisive award and should avoid any vagueness or indefiniteness which might render the award incapable of execution. Here it should be noted that he does not require any reasons to be recorded in justification of decision.
(d)	In giving his decision the arbitrator must confine himself to the matters referred to him
for arbitration. He should refrain from giving any decision on matters not referred to him for arbitration.
      Particular care should be taken to decline to make an award any matter which does not fall within the terms of the Contract, and on claims to which Government have not already agreed, e.g. claims of extraordinary in completing a work before the contractual period at the request of the Engineer Incharge of the work of claims for compensation where work has been brought to a stand still through no fault of the contractor. In such cases the claimant should be merely directed to submit his claim to the proper authority for consideration of Government as the	claim	falls	outside	the	arbitrator	Jurisdiction-
      (c) In giving his decision the arbitrator should apply the principle of justice equity and good conscience and. refrain from any intricate legal or general discussions. He should as far as possible, abstain from reference as to matters outside the scope of the particular contract which he is called on to interpret.
      (f) If at any time prior to signing the award the arbitrator receives notice of the fact that a suit has been lodged relating to matters referred to arbitration the arbitrator should at least pause sufficiently to ascertain whether a ‘suit has been lodged prior to the reference to arbitration and, if so, or in any case I! restrained by injunction postpone all further proceedings unless and until the suit is stayed.
      (g) If under Article 12 of the Stamp Act the decision of n arbitrator when recorded will require stamp he should inform the parties of the amount (referring the question if in doubt to the local Collector) and leave the instrument unsigned until -one or other-party provides the amount payable.
3. The necessity for these instructions will be apparent from a reference to sections 20 and
21 of the second Schedule of the Civil Procedure Code (of the corresponding provisions of the —Indian Arbitration Act as adapted by Pakistan” Arbitration Act where applicable). It is open to either party on the award being announced to move a civil court having jurisdiction to pass judgment according to the terms the award, and the civil court when thus moved is bound to decree - the award as made by the arbitrator, unless the opposite party can show that the award should be remitted or set aside for any of the -reasons given in sections 14 and 15 of the Second Schedule of the Civil Procedure Code, eta. If, however, the Superintending Engineer conforms to the directions suggested, there be imperative no ground for- remission unless (matters which is outside the superintending Engineer‘s control). It should subsequently be made to spear that that either party has been guilty of 		concealment or of willfully misleading the arbitrator,
CHAP -V	APPENDIX —VI
4. Subject to these observation the decision of the Superintending Engineer as arbitrator
would be final and binding on both parties.
5. In all cases of arbitration in which the amount of the award exceeds Es. 2,000 copy of
the award should be forwarded to the West Pakistan Government for information.
6. Intimations regarding awards made by Superintending Engineers should in all cases be
sent to the Director Audit and Accounts Works, West Pakistan, Lahore. for audit purposes.
7. The award made by an arbitrator is binding on both parties and there can be no question
of the Audit Department or of - Government criticizing the action of the arbitrator unless misfeasance or malfeasance is so clearly apparent as to render it imperative for Government to take legal action to have the award made by the arbitrator set aside. As, however, it is desirable that the Audit Department should be in a-position to ascertain whether the arbitration proceedings resulted from the failure of the Departmental Officers concerned to carry oat their duties properly, it is necessary, to acquaint the Director Audit and Accounts Works, West Pakistan with the entire circumstances necessitating a reference to arbitration. To enable .this to be done, the department in which a case is referred, to arbitration should in future prepare a memorandum showing the full facts dealing with the circumstances leading up to arbitration and stressing whether or not there has been any failure on the part of any Departmental Officers concerned which has contributed to the need for arbitration. The memorandum should be Prepared as soon as arbitration proceedings are completed and sent to the Finance Department for consideration and then, on receipt of the latter‘s observations, forwarded to the Director Audit and	Accounts, Works.	West Pakistan	to enable him to decide whether or	not
the case	is a fit one	for report to	the Legislative	Assembly through	his
Appropriation Accounts. -
APPENDIX VII
INSTRUCTIONS TO BE Observed WREN A DIVISION, SUB.
DIVISION IS AMALGAMATED WITH ANOTHER DIVISION,
SUB-DIVISION AND WHEN A NEW DIVISION/SUB.
- DIVISION IS FORMED BY SEPARATION FROM
AN OLD ONE (REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 4-57).
1.	While transferring the record of transactions from the books of a Division/Sub-Division
which is to be closed to those of the Division Sub-Division with which it is to be amalgamated, though following instructions should he observed strictly
(i) Cask—The Divisional anti the Sub Divisional Accounts including imprests should be
closed on the date fixed for the abolition and the unspent cash balances, if any should be paid into the Treasury on that date to the credit of Buildings and Roads Department by the closing Division. The unspent balances of Salary and Travelling Allowance, etc., of the Establishments should, however, be made over to the Executive Engineer, of the Division with which the Accounts are to be amalgamated and the acknowledgments of the money thus handed over should be sent to the Audit Officer.
(ii) suspense and Deposit Balance The balances outstanding, the suspense accounts including stock purchase, Miscellaneous advances and in the Schedule of P W. Deposits. the date of abolition of the Divisional Sub Division will be closed and transferred to the new Division through book and adjustment as noted below
Credit By Debit to
CreditBy Debit toStock--For stock balance (including manufactureTransfer between facture) Buildings and Roads Officer (New Division.Miscellaneous advances—For any balance Ditto. at debit of this headDittoPublic works deposits stock purchases
Stock purchasesFor and balance at credit of this head( transfer between buildings and roads officers new Division )
The items will then be brought in details into the accounts of the amalgamated Division by converse entries.
(iii) Works-All expenditure incurred on unfinished works should be included in the progressive figures of works accounts by the amalgamated Division/Sub-Division, as if it was incur‘ red in that Division/Subdivision in the first instance no transfer of expenditure need be made through the Remittance Schedule. Similarly, all arrears due to contractors, piece workers, laborers or work-charged establishment will be brought on to several schedules of the amalgamated Division/Sub-Division and cleared in the ordinary course as if they had originated in that Division/Sub-Division. In this connection particular emphasis is laid on the extracts from contractors ledgers which should be complete and brought up- to-date in all respect s before a Division/Sub-Division is to be abolished. The amalgamated Division will then incorporate the transactions in . its schedule in the manner explained above. A list of all works in progress will be supplied to the amalgamated Division/Sub- Division and to the director, Audit and Accounts (Works). The register of works and other relevant works record should be transferred to the amalgamated Division.
APPENDIX -VII
(iv) Grant—The unspent balance of the grant at the disposal of the closing Division! Sub-Division will be transferred by formal re appropriation to the amalgamated Division/Sub-division by the Superintending Engineer/ Executive Engineer.
     (v)
(v) Drawing Accounts—The Drawing accounts with the Treasury of the Divisional and Sub Divisional Officer should be closed and the unused cheques and Receipt Books transferred to the amalgamated Division Sub Davison under intimation to the Treasury Officer with whom, they are in accounts.
     (vi)
(vi) Stores—the half-yearly register of stock (W. P. A. Form 12) and the register of tools and plants (W. P.A. Form 15) should be closed. All articles in hand should be made over to and shown as Issued to the amalgamated Division/Sub-Division so that the return of the closing Division/ Sub-Division may close with nil‘ balance. Copies of these returns should be sent to the Executive Engineer of the amalgamated Division/Sub-Division who will be careful to see that the balances transferred agree with the quantities of stores actually received from the closing Division/Sub-Division and that these balances are duly brought on to the return of his Division/ Sub-Division as receipts of the month in which the amalgamation was effective.
     (vii)
(vii) Advices of Debits or Credits /Transfers within Division—An all out effort should be made by the closing Division sub -Division to adjust all advices of debits and credits /transition relating to transfers within Division/adjustment Memos. Received from the Audit Office before a Division/Sub-Division is actually closed. Such of the items which are not acknowledged in the accounts of the closing Division/Sub-Division should‘ be accepted and adjusted by the amalgamated Division(Sub-Division as if the advices were sent to itself. Similarly the debits and credits, raised against others Division/Sub-Division should be perused by the amalgamated Division/Sub-Division in the same manner as if these transactions had originated in the Division/Sub-Division itself. Special attention should be paid to the Adjustment Memos., received from the Audit Office, which must be adjusted, to the final heads under intimation to Audit Office before a Division/Sub-Division is closed. If any memo, is left un-adjusted, the same should be made over to the amalgamated	Division	under	advice	to	Audit	Office.
(viii) Liabilities not yet brought to Accounts-Liabilities not yet brought to account may be noted in the Divisional /Sub Divisional register of transfers awaited to watch their adjustment, if the same have not already been noted in the above register.
(ix) (ix) Interest Rearing Securities--The interest Bearing Securities, viz. the Post Savings Bank Pass Books, etc., should be made over and pledged to the Executive Engineer/Sub-Divisional Officer of the amalgamated division/Sub. Division to which the works of the subordinates concerned are transferred. The original security register should be sent to the amalgamated Division/Sub-Division.
(x) Revenue and Receipts Debits else to/from Government—A note containing complete information regarding the likely revenue or receipts or debits due to/from Government should be prepared by the Executive Engineer/Sub-Divisional Officer of the Division)Sub-Division under reconstitution or abolition and made over to the Executive Engineer/Sub-divisional officer of the amalgamated Division SubDivision -
Chap -V	ANNEXURE - VII
(xi) Road Metal Returns—Road Metal It turns should ho completed and the balance of read side materials as per the road metal register should be handed over the amalgamated Division/Sub-division. The Sub-Divisional Over receiving the materiel should account for the same in his books after physical verification
(xii) Measurement Books—The works —Last Entry” should be written by the Sub- Divisional Officer over his dated signature in each current measurement book before handing them over along with other completed measurement books,
(xiii) Material Accounts—The material accounts in West Pakistan Account Forms 35, 37 and 44/45 should be completed in all respects before the closing of the Division/Sub- Division. If any material account remains to be closed, the same should be handed over to the successor Division Sub-Division with, proper instructions.
(xiv) Work Order Books—Reference to voucher No. and dated in which payments have been made should be noted on each work order so as to eliminate chances of double payment.
(xv) Credit Note Books—Credit note books should be properly handed over, noting thereon the number of blank credit notes still available in the credit notes book, (xvi) Service Books and personal files—The service books and personal files, etc., should receive special attention and handed over complete to the amalgamated division.
(xvii) Copies of Contracts—the files containing copies of contracts should be handed over to the succeeding division after noting the No. 4 and date of vouchers on all contract forms, —wherever payment has already been made.
(xviii) Miscellaneous—Other Divisional and Sub-Divisional records such as —Register of Incumbents” office copies of Salary and Travelling Allowance Bills, Acquaintance Rolls and Receipts/Cheque Books,. Pass Books, Remittance Books, Transfer Entry Books Transfer Entry Order Books, vouchers and Muster Rolls, Daily Reports, Register of measurement Books, Works, Abstracts, Register of Works, Contractors Ledgers, Register of sanction to Estimates Register of Appropriation, Register of Acquisition) Surrender of land, Register of Buildings, Capital and Revenue accounts of Buildings, Service‘ Lables Books, Books of reference, Register of Property, Tender Register, Register of voucher slips. Register of Miscellaneous Revenues, Kilns Register, Register of Divisional Accountant Audit objection and Rent Register, etc., etc., should be completed in all respects and handed over to the amalgamated Division/Sub-Division.
(xix) Inspection Reports, Audit Notes and objection Statement—All inspection reports. Audit, Notes, Half Margins and objection statement, etc., issued by the Audit Once should be disposed of before‘ the Division or Sub‘ Division Is finally closed, Subsequently objection and reminders ‘should be disposed of by the succeeding Division/Sub-Division. -
(xx) W. P. A. Form 51 Settlement with Treasuries -Similarly the schedule of monthly settlement with treasuries shall be completed in all respects and sent to audit, before the	Division is closed, failing which the cause of
arrears should be similarly explained for necessary action in the succeeding Division.
2. An intimation regarding the impending closing down, amalgamation. etc., of any Division/Subdivision	should	also	be,	sent	to	the	Treasury
ANNEXURE -VII CHAP. V
      Officer‘s concerned by the Executive Engineer/Sub. Divisional Officer of the prospective defunct Division/Sub-Division and the particular date which the change is to take place so that they prepare and send C. T. R‘s, and certificates of cheques to the correct quarter. If the officerin- charge of the defunct Division/ Sub. Division fails to inform the treasury officer in time then the officer-in-charge of amalgamated Division/Subdivision should send the necessary intimation at the earliest opportunity.
3.	Although the above instructions are sufficiently elaborate, yet there might be particular
items relating to individual Divisions on :which the guidance of Audit Office to, examine the particular points in detail before Issuing further necessary particulars the Executive Officer concerned should address the Audit Office for necessary instructions at least two months in advance of the final date of the closing of the Division in accordance with requirements of paragraph 549 of West Pakistan Account Code. No such letter need however, be sent in the case of closing of a Sub-Division, unless this is extremely urgent or important, as the Divisional Accountant posted in the Division by Director, Audit and Accounts (Works) Is supposed to issue necessary instructions and watch their compliance in the light of the general instructions given above.
