THE WEST PAKISTAN
BUILDINGS & ROADS, DEPARTMENT CODE
(Applicable to the departments of Buildings, Road, irrigation,
Communication, Central Public Works; Posts and Telegraphs in the Province of Punjab, Sind
N.W.F.P. & Baluchistan)
(APPLICABLE TO ALL CONCERNED THROUGH-OUT PAKISTAN)
Reproduced with Correction
By
HAMID ALI	ZAKA ALI
(M.A., M.Ed., LL.B.)	(ADVOCATE)
(Exponents of Civil Service, Labour, Taxation & general Laws)
Hemmed & up to date
Up to-date Amendments Incorporated
REVISED EDITION
1989
THE IDEAL PUBLISHERS
(PUBLICATIONS OF LAW BOOKS)
POST BOX NO. 3514
KARACHI- 74800
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CHAPTER I-ESTABLISHMENT
Paragraphs
A. Organization
B. Recruitment of Officers	1.1-1.3
      I. General	1.4-1.6
      II. Authorities	competent to make appointment	1.7
      III. Scale of pay of Engineer Establishment...	1.8
C. Promotions-
I. General	1.9.1.10
II. Indian Service of Engineers	1.11-1-18
III. Specialist Officers	1.14
IV. Petty Establishment	1.15
V. Records of service, annual reports and
Recommendation rolls
Engineer Establishment	...	1.16-1.18
Subordinate Engineering Service	...	1.19
Clerical and Draftsman Establishments...	b20
Accountants	...	1.21
General	...	1.22
D. Punishments, Resignations, Removals, Dismissals And Deaths-
I. Treatment of serious cases of misconduct...	1.28
II. Punishments
HI. Suspensions	...	1.27
IV. Resignations	...	1.28
V. Dismissals	...	1.29-1.34
VI. Deaths	...	1.35-1-37
E Duties of officers of the Building and Roads
Department-
I. Chief Engineer	...	1.88-1.41
II. Regional Engineer officer	...	1.42-1.43
III. Superintending Engineer	...	1.44-1.51
IV. Superintendent of Work	...	1.5
VI. Divisional Officer	...	1.53.1.69

        VI Subdivision Officer	...
     F. Allowances, Advances and Compensation-
I. Allowances	...
II. Advances	...
III. Compensation for lots of property	...
     G. Leave	. .
     H. Examinations-
       I. Training and examination of Engineers...
      J. .Professional examination	. .
     I. Employment on Local Fund Works	...
     J. Transfer
I. General	...
II. Inter-provincial transfer	...
        III. Inter-departmental transfers	...
     K. Employment of Temporary and Work Charged Establishments:
I. Temporary establishment	. .
II. Work charged establishment	.	..
     L. Police and Other Guards	...
     M. Medical Establishment-.
I. General	...
II. Pay and allowances or Medical establishment
..
III. Leave, retirement and resignations of
Assistant Surgeons and Sub Assistant
Surgeons	...
        IV. Removal of Assistant and Sub-Assistant
Surgeons	...
 N. Miscellaneous Rules-
I. Personal	...
II. Complaints against officials	...
III. Procedure in regard to law suits	. .
        IV. Security deposits	...
V. Stationery and forms	. .
        VI. Destruction of official records	. .
        VII. General rules of office procedure
      VIII. Establishment returns.

CHAPTER II-WORKS
A. classification of the Operations of the Building and Roads Department	...
   B. Administrative Approval and Technical Sanction. .
   C. Requisitions by Civil Officers
        I. General	.	..
II. Procedure in regard to original petty works costing Rs. 2,500 or less	. .
III. Procedure in regard to original works costing more than Bs. 2,500	...
       IV. Procedure in regard to repair	...
       V. Limitation of sanction	...
D. Preparation of Projects-
       I. General	. .
       II. Original works-
        (a) Civil buildings	•	. .
        (b) Roads	..
        (c) Town water supply projects	..
       III. Repairs-
        (a) General	. .
        (b) Special rules	..
  E. Contracts and Works Orders-
        I. General	..
       II. Contract document	..
       III. Tenders	.	. .
       IV. Security for performance of contracts ...
        V. Provision in contracts for imported stores..
       VI. Enforcement of terms of contract	..
       VII. Officers empowered to execute contracts. .
      VIII. Piece work	...
 F. Sale and Acquisition of Land-
(l) Sale of Government land and immoveable Property	..
        (m) Acquisition of land-
(n) General	. .
(o) Land held for military purposes	. .
  (p) Acquisition of land by private negotiation	2.8
G. Execution of Works-
     - I. Commencement of works	2.89--785
       II. Scope of sanction	...	986
       III. Lapse of sanction	...	2.87
       IV. Alterations in design daring construction...	2.88-2.89
V. Miscellaneous rules for the execution of work	..	2.90-2.97
       VI. Advances to contactors	...	2.98
      VII. Sanitation on extensive works.	..	2.99
VIII. Information to be given to the Survey Department	...	2.100
      IX. Execution of works by civil Officers	2.101
H. Deposit Works
I. Disposal or Estimates-
I. Office of record for estimates	. .	2.107
II. Communication of sanctions to estimate to the Audit officers	...	2.108
J. Supplementary and Revised Estimates-
        I. Supplementary Estimate	...	2-109
       II. Revised estimate	2-110--2413
III. Utilization of completion report o statement as revised estimate	2.114
 K. Completion Reports, Certificate and Plans
       I. General	2.115
       II. Works executed on behalf of other Department	2.116-2^ 118
      III. Record and other drawings and plans	2.119-2.123
      IV. Office of record	...	2.125
     V. Preparation and Disposal of Completion. .	2.125
ANNEXURE TO CHAPTER II
A. Delegation of Powers under Financial Rules and powers of re-appropriation-
B. Power Delegated to various officers-.
C. Rules for the payment of compensation-
D. Grant-in-aid for contribution works-

CHAPTER III- PUBLIC BUILDINGS
   A. General
        1. General rules	..
       H. Fixtures and furniture-
        (a) Fixtures	..
        (b) Furniture‘s	. .
       III. Purchase and sale of Government buildings. .
IV. Hire of office accommodation for officers of the Buildings and Roads Department . .
       V. .Renting of building	. .
       VI. Taxes	. .
VII. Sanitary, water-supply and electrical installations	. .
      VIII. Inspection of public buildings	..
      II. Registers of buildings	..
       X. Plans and Buildings	..
 B. Residences for Government Officials-
        I. General	. .
II. Special rules relating to expenditure on Residences of His Excellency the Governor. .
III. classification of residential Building and assessment of rent	..
IV. Bent-Rules for Government Buildings used as residences	. .
        V. Periodical Review of concession	. .
ANNEXURE TO Chapter III
        Rent of residential buildings (How to be
calculated)
CHAPTER IV-MISCELLANEOUS RULES REGARDING Office WORKS EXCLUDING ACCOUNTS PROCEDURES
    A. Initial Records or Account	..	4.1
        1. Muster Rolls	. .	4-2-4.4
        H. Measurement Books	..	4-5-4-8
HI. Progress report of measurements on works executed under contract	. .	4.9
    B. Custody of cash	. .	4-10-4.11
    C. Cashiers	..	4-12-4.14


D. Stores-
     I. General
    II. Acquisition and manufacture of stores
   III. Reserve of stock	,
    IV. Stock-taking
    V. Disposal of stores
    IV. Mathematical instruments	.
Paragraph
     4.15-4.17
   4.18-4.25
     4.26-4^27
     4.28-4-31
     4.36-4.37
    4.38-4-39
E. Storekeepers
F. Loss of cash
G. Rules for Divisional Workshops
H. Transfers of Charges.-
     I. General
     J. . Divisional and Sub-Divisional Officers
K. I. Reconstitution of Executive or Sub Divisional charge
    L. . Ocher officers
     1. Heavy expenditure in March
4.40
4.41 442-443
4.44-4.48
4.49-4-56
4-57
4.58
 4.59
CHAPTER POWERS OF SANCTIONS OF THE WEST PAKISTAN
GOVERNMENT IN BUILDINGS AND ROADS DEPARTMENT AND
OF THE AUTHOIRES SUBORDINATE TO IT
A. General-
II.Commencement of work in anticipation of detailed estimates of the complete project.    5.4-5.6III.Commencement of work in anticipation of the orders on the Buildings and Roads budget	..    5-7
I.	Fundamental conditions	5.1-5.3
8. Powers of Government in the Administrative
   Departments-
     1. Administrative approval.
     (a) Residential buildings (other than ecclesiast-
Local)	..	5.8-5.9
     (b) Other public works (other than ecclesiastical	5-10
II. Technical sanction-
(a) General
(b) Original works
5.11
5.12-5'15


































Vii
Paragraph
       (c) Renewals and replacements	..	5.16
       (d) Maintenance and repairs	. .	5.17
       (e) Supplementary and revised estimates	. -	5.18-5.22
      III. Stores	..	5.32-5.25
      IV. Remission of departmental charges .	. .	5.26
       V. Miscellaneous powers	. 5.27-5.28
ANNEXURES TO CHAPTER V
  A. Auditor-General's Direction for establishment-
   B. Regarding date of birth
APPENDICES
 I	Molasses of deeds, contracts and other instruments and the
Officers authorized to execute them for and on behalf of the Governor of the West Pakistan.
II	Statement showing the minimum periods	for which official
records in the Buildings and Roads Department should be preserved.
III . List of Periodical Returns.
IV Sanitary rules on Extensive works.
V Store rules framed by the West Pakistan Government with
       Instructions regarding the preparation of indents.
VI Instructions for the guidance of Superintending Engineers acting as arbitrators.
VII . Instructions to be observed when Divisions or Subdivisions are amalgamated, formed or separated.
INTRODUCTION
         The administration of Buildings and Roads Department covers the entire West Pakistan as map forming the front-is-piece of this Code which shows its various Regions. The immediate control of operation is in the hands of the Governor of West Pakistan and this authority (hereinafter called the West Pakistan Government or Government) exercises full financial control over the affairs of the department Reference has been made to various rules in the Financial and Civil Services Rules of the former Punjab Government in this Code. This Code will now be applicable throughout the Province of West Pakistan and corresponding the issue of integrated Financial and Civil Services Rules for the Government of West Pakistan, references to the corresponding Financial and Services Rules of other integrating units will be necessary.
PREFACE
      The West Pakistan Buildings and Roads Department Code reproduced here is applicable to the respective Departments in the newly restored Provinces of the Punjab, Sind, N.W.F.P. and Baluchistan by virtue of Article 19 of the Province of West Pakistan (Dissolution) Order, 1970 (President‘s Order No. I of 1970) dated 30th‘March, 1970. The Code is applicable to Buildings and Roads Department including Irrigation, Communication (Posts and Telegraphs) and Central Works Department.
      Buildings and Roads Department and embodies such rulings as are necessary in the interest of Provincial finance and control. It does not deal with questions of pensions nor otherwise than indirectly with those relating to leave and allowances except where the rifles governing the same are peculiar to the Buildings and Roads Department, tar with the procedure to l followed in connection. with the Buildings and Roads accounts. The provisions of this Code in respect of financial and other powers define the limits of power of authorities subordinate to the former West Pakistan Government in Irrigation, Communication and Works Department. Fundamental Rules, Civil Services Rules of Punjab, Sind, Frontier, Bahawaipur, Khairpur, Baluchistan States Union, Departmental Finances Rules, Volume Ill and rules in the Audit Code, the Account Code of the Government relating to classes of transactions which occur in the Buildings and Roads Department as well as in other Departments. of Governments are binding on the Buildings and Roads Department except in so far as they may be over ridden by express provisions in this Code or in the Account code.
The rules in this Code also apply to Central Works (including Posts and Telegraphs) carried out by the former West Pakistan Government as Agents to the Government of Pakistan. -
      This Code is issued by the then Chief Engineer, of former West Pakistan Buildings and Roads Department. It has been approved by the Finance Department and Irrigation, Communication and Works Department as well as by Director Audit and Accounts (Works), of former West Pakistan. The administrative and executive instructions contained herein are practically the same as given in the Public Works Department Code, 2nd Edition, 3 reprint, Public Works Department Code of North-West Frontier Province (1st edition 1942) and Bombay Public Works Depart menial Manual (1st edition) reprinted under the orders of Sled Government in 1944, and it also included corrections and amendments necessitated as a result of constitutional changes brought out by the unification of the Provinces.
      This Code is self-contained as the references to other books have been avoided by reproducing the text required. Some of the Annexures and Appendices have also been added with a view to achieve this object.
      The Code was first issued by the then Government of West Pakistan in 1960 and since then amendments have been made from time to time in the provisions of this Code by the respective Governments of the, Punjab, Sind, N.W.F.P. and Baluchistan.
      All the available amendments have been incorporated, errors corrected, and omissions have also been. rectified. However full justice could not be done due the no availability of the amendments. The old currency rates of payments and revenues may be substituted by. the .latest rates prescribed by the respective Provincial Governments. The Code is to be quoted‘ in all official communications and the basic and fundamental provisions of the Code may also be referred	thereto	by	the	respective	Departments	cited	above.
HAMID ALI
CHAPTER I—ESTABLISHMENT
A—ORGANIZATION
      (The administration of Buildings and Roads Department covers the entire West Pakistan as per. map forming the front is-piece of this Code which shows its various Regions. The immediate control of operation is in the hands of the Governor of West Pakistan and this authority (hereinafter called the West Pakistan Government or Governments) exercises full financial control over the affairs of the department).
      Sections A to B and F and 0 will be printed after the integration of the Civil Services Rules.
A - Organization .. paragraphs 1-1 to 1-3 omitted.
B -Recruitment of officers.. paragraphs 1-4 to 1-8 omitted.
C- -Promotions .. Paragraphs P9 to 1 22 omitted.
D-Punishments, resignations,
removal dismissal and deaths, omitted. para I. 13 to 1.37
E-DUTIES OF OFFICERS OF THE BUILDINGS
AND ROADS DEPARTMENT
1-CHIEF ENGINEER
      1.38. The Chief Engineer is the head Of the Department in his charge and is responsible for the efficient working .of his Department. Re is also the responsible professional adviser of Government in all matters relating to his charge or on which his advice may be desired. He is also required to bring clearly and faithfully before Government all subjects reserved for its decision lot that of the Central Government.
      1.39.—-it is the duty of the Chief Engineer to arrange, where necessary, removals, transfers and postings of-
(1) Regional Engineer Officers,
(2) Superintending Engineers,
(3) Divisional Officers, and
(4) Other Gazetted Officers.
      For No. I and 2 above, he will obtain orders of the Government. As regards No. 3 and. 4 above, their inter-zonal transfers will be arranged by the Chief Engineer. While their transfers within their Zone will be arranged by the Regional Engineer Officer, Chief. Engineer will, how 4. ever, in public interest exercise the powers of the Regional Engineer Officer.
I ‘40. The Chief Engineer will exercise a concurrent control with the Audit Officer, over the duties of the officers of the Department in connection with the maintenance of the accounts and. will give all legitimate support to the Audit Officer . in enforcing strict attention to the regulations concerning the disbursement of money, the custody of stores and the submission of accounts. He has no authority over the Audit Officer in regard to audit matters, but has a c]aim on him for assistance and advice in matters relating to accounts and finance. At the same time the Chief Engineer should arrange that the Audit Officer is kept fully cognizant of all proceedings and proposals, to enable the latter to fulfill	his functions.
1.41. The Chief Engineer all may correspond direct with the heads of Departments on all matters relating to details of buildings or works appertaining to those departments. A detail of buildings or works appertaining to those departments. A statement of the financial and miscellaneous powers of ‘the Chief Engineer is given in paragraphs 5‘27 and 5.28.
II-REGIONAL ENGINEER OFFICERS.
1.42. The Regional Engineer Officer is the administrative and professional officer in charge of a region. He is responsible to the Chief Engineer for the administrative and general professional control of works in charge of the officers of the department within the Circles under hi& charge.
2.	The Regional Engineer Officer will prepare annually the portion of the budget estimates
relating to the works under his control and as soon as possible after the close of each year a report. of. the progress made during that period on the works under his charge giving a brief but a clear account of the operations of the department.
3.	It is the duty of the Regional Engineer Officer to see that the budget allotments of the
year placed .at his disposal by the Chief Engineer or direct by other Head of Department pertaining to such Head of classification for which he Chief Engineer is not the operating

authority hare fully expended in so far as is consistent with general economy and the prevention of large expenditure in the last months of the year for the sole purpose of avoiding the lapses. He will ensure that money which is not likely to be needed during the year is promptly surrendered through the Chief Engineer or the Head of Department concerned so as to allow of its appropriation for other purposes by the proper and competent authority.
      4 8.- The Regional Engineer Officer will also be responsible in ensuring that the account of public Works Divisions in his administration are properly maintained and no arrears are allowed to accumulate for this purpose. He will fully utilize the services of the Audit Officer attached to his region who is required to go round various Public Works Division in the region for thorough and careful inspection and working of the Account! Branch and advise ways and means for the expeditious disposal of the account and work, clearance of arrears by existing staff giving necessary instruction on the spot or with the help of additional special staff where essentially	required.
5. Regional] Engineer Officers arc empowered to transfer and post all members of establishment within their regions with the following exceptions:
(a) Superintending Engineers.
(b) Divisional Accountant.
       (c) Officers other than the above who have been j specifically - posted by the Chief Engineer to a particular post - for some special reasons. Transfer of such officers requires Chief Engineer‘s approval.
6. The Regional Engineer Officer are not empowered to arrange transfers out of regions.
When arranging mutual transfers, orders of the Chief Engineer must be obtained before hand 1.43 A Regional Engineer Officer may correspond direct with the heads of departments on all matters relating to details of buildings and works appertaining to these departments.
III.—SUPERINTENDING ENGINEERS
1.44 The administrative unit of the department is the Circle, in charge of a Superintending Engineer who -is responsible to the Regional Engineer - Officers for the administration and general professional control of Public Works in charge of officers of the department within his Circle.
      I. 45 It is the duty of the Superintending Engineer to inspect. the state of the various works within his Circle, and to satisfy himself that the system of management providing is efficient and economical, that the different articles in stock are duly verified according to he rules laid down, and that there is no accumulation of stock in any division beyond its requirements. He is also responsible that no delay its to occur in the submission of Completion Reports or completion statements) where necessary. (See paragraph 2. 117).
      I.46 The Superintending Engineer is required to ascertain and report on the efficiency of the subordinate, offices and petty establishment, and to see that the staff employed in each Division is actually necessary and adequate for its management. He will also examine the condition of surveying and mathematical instruments at the headquarters of Divisions. He will inspect each Divisional Office in his Circle at least once in a year to examine initial accounts, accounts of stock, tools and plant and stock manufacture, registers of works and other divisional books, mode of preparation of estimates, contract agreements, contractors : accounts. system of recording plans and papers, and office work generally.
      The Superintending Engineers should submit invariably a report to the Regional Engineer Officer intimating whether the inspection discloses any serious irregularities or other matters of importance, which the Superintending Engineer considers should be brought to the notice of Regional Engineer Officer, or on which orders are required.
      I .47 Although the Audit Officer is required to make inspection of the account offices of disbursing officers, this does not relieve the Superintending Engineer of responsibility for the maintenance of the authorized system of accounts throughout his circle. The Audit Officer and the Superintending Engineer should assist each other in rendering the management of the accounts of the department as perfect as possible. The Superintending Engineer should also examine the books of Divisional Officers and their subordinates, and see that matters relating to the primary accounts are attended to personally by the Divisional and Sub-Divisional Officer and that the accounts fairly represent the progress of each work. It will also be his duty to examine the registers of works, so as to keep a vigilant watch over the rates of work, and when he considers it necessary, he may require a Divisional Officer to report to him monthly or at longer
intervals, on a works slip, W. P. A
Chap I)	ESTABLISHMENT ‘1 DUTIES OF OFFICERS	1.48
Form 39 the total expenditure to date under each sub-head of a work compared with the sanctioned estimate. It will thus be seen that its rests with the superintending Engineer to investigate excesses over sub-heads with a view to deciding whether or not a revisal estimate is required for the work. When a revised estimate is required it will also devolve on the Superintending Engineer to see that it is submitted in due time to the sanctioning authority. See paragraphs 1 ‘63 and 2- 110.
      1-48 (1) (a) Transfer within Circle Superintending Engineers are empowered to transfer and post all members of establishment within their circles with the following exceptions
(a) Divisional Officers. Divisional Accountants.
(c) Officers other than the above who have been specifically -posted by tie Chief Engineer and the Regional Engineer Officer to a particular post for some special reasons. Transfer of such officer requires Regional Engineers officers approval.
(d) Transfer outside Circle Superintending Engineer should try to arrange mutual transfers of non- gazetted establishment, for personal or other reasons, in direct communication with the Superintending Engineer of the circle concerned. the case of establishment borne on provincial cadres, the transfer should be reported to Regional Engineer officer for information.
      If a mutual transfer cannot be arranged within four month a report should be made in the case of establishment borne on Provincial cadres to the Regional Engineer Officer for orders stating the action already taken.
Mutual transfers of the following Gazetted and non- gazetted establishment must not be arranged by Superintending Engineers. These cases must be reported to Regional Chief Engineer for orders:-
      (i) Overseers Officiating as Sub-divisional Officers.
      (ii) Circle Superintending and Circle Head Draftsmen whether permanent or officiate.
1.49-1.53	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	CHAP - I
      When - arranging mutual transfer , Superintending Engineers must see that members of establishment borne on Provincial cadres are not taken back in a circle in which they have already had a long stay, or it which their home district or property lies
      Before a transfer is made both Superintending Engineers must satisfy themselves that the individual concerned has not been posted to, or previously transferred from their circle for part particular reasons orders of Regional Chief Engineer are needed before a retransfer is, carried out.
      I .49 Superintending Engineers are responsible for the engineering character of every work which they approve, and, in submitting any report design, estimate, or other documents to the Regional Engineer officer will invariably state their own opinion and recommendations on the subjects, in particular as to the suitability of the designs and the reasonableness of the rates. They should also have estimates checked and compared With the drawings,
      (2) Superintending Engineers may be required to exercise, in addition to their ordinary duties, supervision over 10031 fund expenditure in communication with the Civil Officers. 1.50 Besides regular tours of inspection, it is the duty of Superintending Engineers to proceed to any place in their circles to report on any important design or work, or any serious accident or threatened danger connected with the works within their charge.
      1.51 Superintending Engineer is authorized to cones- pond direct with any of the local authorities, civil or military, within his Circle He will address General Officers Commanding Divisions or Brigades through their Staff Officers, and all other officers direct.
III— SUPERINTENDENTS OF WORKS
I 52-Deleted.
IV-DIVISION OFFICERS
1.53 The executive unit of the Department is the Division, in charge of a divisional officer who is usually an Executive Engineer and is responsible to the Superintending Engineer, for the execution and management of all works within his Division. The number of Divisions, permanent or temporary, is fixed by the Government of West Pakistan for the Department according to its requirements, provided
always that true interests of any of the existing officers of the Indian Service of Engineers are not, adversely affected thereby
.
Assistant Executive and Assistant or temporary Engineers way be placed in charge of Divisions, either to fill short ternporary vacancies or because Executive Engineer is available, they exercise the.	powers	and	bear	the	responsibilities	of	an
Executive Engineer while in such charge.
1.54 A	Divisional	Officer	can	receive	positive	orders	only
from his own departmental superiors, the head of the Administration, or -other Civil officers duly authorized.
1.55 Divisional Officers are responsible that proper measures are -taken to-preserve all the buildings and works in their Divisions, and to prevent encroachment on Government lands in their -charge They should keep accurate plans of all ‘Government Lands, take care that their- subordinates make themselves acquainted with the boundaries and see that they are maintained.
1.56 Every Divisional Officer is required to report immediately by telegram direct to the Chief Engineer and also to the Regional Engineer Officer and- Superintending Engineer any serious accident or unusual occurrence resulting in serious injury to or death of a by person or damage - to any work or. crop.. Connected with his Division. The telegram should be confirmed by letter stating the action taken by the Divisional Officer. (See also paragraph 2.96).
1.57 Divisional Officers may transfer establishment others than Sub-Divisional Officers, Divisional Accountants and within their respective Divisions without reference to higher. authority. Such transfers will be reported in the ordinary course the	Superintending	Engineer.
1.58 Divisional Officers are- immediately responsible for the proper maintenance of all works in their charge and for the preparation of projects and of designs and estimates, whether for new works or repairs. It is also part of -their duties to organize and supervise the execution of works and to see that they are suitably and economically carried out with	materials	of	good	quality.
1.59 Divisional Officers are strictly prohibited from commencing the construction of any works or expending public funds without the sanction of competent authority; also from making or permitting any material deviations from any sanctioned design in the course of execution without specific authority, or in case of emergency when the change should be forthwith reported to the Superintending Engineer (See also paragraph 2.84)
1.1 60-I .63 PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	(Chap. I
1.60 Immediately a work is finished, it is the duty of the Divisional Officer to close the accounts and to prepare the completion report If required by the riles in paragraph 2.117.
1.61 . Divisional Officers will take the necessary steps for obtaining cash for the works under their control, and will keep their accounts and submit them punctually to the audit office under the rules for the time being in force. In their arrangements for account keeping they will exercises a thorough and efficient control and check over their Divisional Accountants.. They will also, before submitting the monthly accounts carefully examine the hooks, returns and papers from which the same are complied .
1.62 . The Divisional Officer is responsible for the correctness in all respects, of the original records of cash and stores, receipts awl expenditure and for seeing that complete vouchers are obtained. The Divisional Accountant is responsible to the Divisional Officer for the correct compilation of the accounts of Division from the data supplied to him,
      The Divisional Officer is responsible that his accounts are regularly posted day to day and that the divisional Accountant caries out his duties regularly and punctually. The relative position of a divisional officer and respect of accounts is analogous to that of a Sub-Divisional officer to a Divisional Officer in respect of Works and the responsibilities of the latter for the work of the Divisional l Accountant are similar to those which attach to him in respect of the execution of‘ works in the charge of other subordinates.
1.63 The Divisional Officer is held primarily responsible for affording information of the probability of excess over the estimated cost of work, and is expected not to allow any delay to occur in reporting any such probability to the Superintending Engineer. Immediately it becomes apparent that, whether from excess of certain rates or from departure from a design or any other cause, the estimated cost of a. work likely to be exceeded the Divisional Officer is bound to report the fact forthwith to the Superintending Engineer, describing the nature and cause of the probable excess and asking for orders. This report should be made on the works slip, P. W. A. from 39. The Divisional Officer must also submit the works slip, with such explanation as will enable the Superintending Engineer to pass orders on the case, on the occurrence, or the probability of the occurrence,
of any irregularity in the rate or cost of a sub-head. All important liabilities not brought to account should also be noted on the works slip.
It will not be necessary for the Divisional Officer to submit the works slip in cases in which he can finally pass excess over estimates as per powers detailed in Annexure —A” to Chapter II of this code.
      1.64 The Divisional Officer is responsible that the surveying and mathematical instruments in his Division are properly eared for, and will report on their condition to the Superintending Engineer at the and of each working season. Any injury to the instruments due to neglect or carelessness should be made good at the expense of the officer or subordinates responsible for the damage.
      1.65 It will be the duty of the Divisional Officer to furnish Treasury and Sub-Treasury .Officers, after due inspection, with the certificate, prescribed in Article 9 of the Resource Manual as to the security of strong rooms used or proposed to be used for the storage of coin.
      1.66 The Divisional Officer, in addition to his other duties, will consider himself to be the ex-office professional adviser of all departments of the administration within the limits of his charge. He will transact business of this sort with the Chief military or civil authorities within his Division, but it is incumbent on him to see that no undue formalities or comparatively unessential projects are allowed to interfere with the performance of those duties which are necessary or urgent.
      1.67 67. Divisional Officers may, where the services of an officer of the Military Engineer Services are not available, be called upon by General Officers Commanding Divisions or Brigades to be members of committees appointed to select sites and determine general boundaries of cantonments.
      1.68. At stations where there are no ordnance or military works workshops, repairs to ambulance wagons and tongas will be carried out by the Buildings and Roads J)department.
      1.69	. Divisional Officers will address Officers Commanding Divisions, Brigades or
Stations through their Staff Officers.
V—SUB DIVISIONAL OFFICER
      I. 70 The Division is divided in to Sub-Divisions Incharge of Sub-Divisional Officers who may be Executive Engineers, Assistant Executive Engineers, Assistant Engineers or where no. such Officers are available, Engineer Subordinates; they
1 .86	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[CHAP-.1
      are responsible to the Divisional Officer for the management and execution of works within their Sub-Decisions and are his assistants.
      No. Sub Division can be constituted in the first instance with out the sanction of Government
F—ALLOWANCE ADVANCES AND COMPENSATION Paragraph 1.72 to 1.79 Omitted
G Leave
Paragraph 1.80 to 1.85 Omitted
H— EXAMINATION
      I—TRAINING AND EXAMINATION OF ENGINEERS
I .86. The following departmental examinations are compulsory for the classes of officers noted against each:—
1. Professional Examination to be passed within three years of joining the appointment by
the members of the Punjab Services of Engineers (Classes I and II), Khairpur Service of Engineers (Classes I and II), Sind Services of Engineers (Classes I and II Provincial Service of Engineers, Class I and Class II of old N.-W. F. P. and Temporary Engineers of all Integrating Units (including Temporary Engineers of old Baloushistan States Union) and by other permanent and temporary Engineers (of all ranks); and within three years, to be reckoned as per details given in paragraph 1.90 by members of the Subordinate Engineering Service. No member of the latter service will be considered eligible for promotion to the P.S.E., Class II, Buildings and Roads Department, unless he has passed the Professional Examination
2. If an officer fails to pass any of these examinations with in the prescribed period, his
increments will be withheld and will not be granted with retrospective effect, on his passing the examination on passing the examination on he will, with effect from the date following that on which the examination ended, be entitled to the rate of pay corresponding to his length of service. If a member of the Subordinate Engineering Service in the Buildings and -Roads Department fails to pass the professional Examination with in the prescribed period, he shall be reverted to sectional, charge. If, however, his failure to pass be due to circumstances beyond the control of he officers or subordinate, Government may extended the period for hint
3. The names only of successful candidates will be intimated the Secretary to Government. West	Pakistan,	Irrigation,	Communications	and	Works	Department.
Note- The date of joining appointment for the purpose of this paragraph is date from which pay is drawn (in the case of officers required in Europe , the date from which after arrival in West Pakistan, pay is drawn).
CHAP.I	ESTABLISHMENT EXAMINATIONS	(1.87-1.90
2 .87	(1) An officer appointed to the Department as Assistant Executive Engineer, Assistant
Engineer, or Temporary Engineer shall be required, during the first two years of his service, to write up the accounts of a Subdivision himself for three months, and he shall shortly, thereafter‘ be posted to a Divisional Office for a short period to learn how the Sub-Divisional accounts are dealt with there and in the accounts of the Division.
3 2) No exemption will be allowed to any officer recruited in or outside Pakistan. on the recommendation of the Superintending Engineer, however, the Chief Engineer may exempt an officer who, before appointment to the Department, had previous experience in the procure relating to initial accounts sufficient to justify exemption.
4 3) Officers already in the Department are exempted from the operation of rule I above as also those who have been promoted from the Subordinate or Temporary Engineer Establishment to the various cadres of Services of Engineers.
1.88 Deleted.
II—Professional Examination
1. 89. The Departmental Professional examination is intended to show that officers are acquainted with the processes of preparing materials and modes of construction; that they have a good knowledge of the resources of the districts in which they have been employed as to materials, the best mode of applying them, and their cost, and that they understand the management of labour and have made themselves acquainted with the account rules and procedure of the Department. No theoretical points should be introduced, such as would in practice be met by resort to ordinary books of reference.
1.90. The following rules and procedure are laid down for Buildings and Roads (including Public Health Circle and other Special lines )Department in regard to the Professional Examination to be passed by members of the Punjab Service of Engineers (Classes I and II) Bahawalpur Service of Engineers (Glass I-and II) Sind Service of Engineers (Classes I .and II), Khairpur Service of Engineers (Classes I and II), Provincial Service of Engineers, Northwestern Frontier Province (Classes I and II), Temporary Service of Engineers -of Old Baluchistan State Union, Subordinate Engineering Service, other permanent and temporary Engineers (of all ranks) and all Consulting Architects, Assistant Consulting Architects, Provincial Town Planner and Assistant Provincial Town Planner within three years which will count .
Chap. I]	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE (1.90)
from the date of appointment to independent charge and the period of training if any, shall be excluded. This examination must also be passed by members of the Senior Establishment Service and Overseers who officiate as Sub-Divisional Officers within three years as follows In the case of those who officiate continuously for not less than 6 months for the first time the three years will count from the date of commencement of such period of 6 mouths and in the case of those who officiate for broken periods of less than 6 months, the three years will be calculated by totaling such broken periods.
Note—(1) All Engineers entering the department in the Buildings and Roads, General and Public Health line shall during the fist three years of their service qualify in any one of two examination, for the Buildings and roads General or Public Health and in the next three years those passing the examination for general line shah also qualify in Papers (ii) and (iii) of Public health and those passing public Health in paper (ii) of Roads and Bridge.
(2)	—(2) Engineers whose service will be above 6 years on lab April 1958 and have passed
the Departmental Professional Examination will, however, be exempted from the operation of the orders contained in Note I above,
(2)	(a) Application for. admission to the examination—
      An Officer who desires to be examined should apply through his immediate superior for admission to the examination. This application should be accompanied by a report on his fitness to be examined by the Divisional immediate Officer under whom he is serving. This report should deal with those points which cannot be tested by an Examination, especially with regard to physical energy, efficiency in practical work and capacity to manage these under Mi authority.
(b) Date of holding the examination—The examination will ordinarily be held in May and November. Applications should be submitted in March or September, respectively so that when possible the date of the examination may be fixed six weeks prior to the date on which it will be held.
(c) Conduct of examination — (i) The Secretary to Government, West Pakistan, Irrigation, Communications and Works Department will appoint a board to conduct the examination, consisting of a Superintending Engineer of the Buildings and Roads, General Line as President and two Executive Engineers as members, who will be one each, from the Buildings and Roads General Line and the Public Health Circle to be nominated by the Secretary, Irrigation, Communications and Works Department. The Consulting or Provincial Town Planner will be appointed to conduct the Architect Examination of the candidates from the Offices of the Consulting Architect and Provincial Town Planner.. The paper in accounts shall be set by an Officer of the finance or the Audit Department.
      (ii)	The Secretary will fix the place date and time of the examination.
      (iii)	The Examiners will be to return the answer paper duly marked to the president
of the road within 4 days of the examination of the paper concerned and the latter will compile and submit the result to the Secretary last declaring it within seven days from the last date of he examination
       (d)Subject for examination-One paper will be set in each of the following subjects to which the maximum number of marks shown against each will be allotted:-
Subject
Buildings and Roads 1)Department General Line—
(i) Materials and Construction (I written paper 3 hours)	100
(ii) Roads and Bridges (I written paper
2 hours) for Buildings and Roads General line , candidates only	50
(iii) Water Supply and Drainage (elementary) for buildings and Roads, General Line, candidates only .	50
(iv) Simple Electrical Hydraulic and Mechanical
Engineering for buildings and Roads	50
(v) Accounts and office procedure (I Written paper, 3 hours	100
(vi) General oral Examination	50
Total	400
Public Heath -
i. Material and construction (I written paper, 3 hours)	100
ii. Water supply and sanitary Engineering (advanced) for public
      Health Branch candidates	50
iii. Electrical Hydraulic and Mechanical Engineering applied to Public Health work including air-conditioning and refrigeration for public Health Branch Candidates.	100
1.90 PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[Chap. I
Subject	Total Marks
(iv) Accounts and office procedure
   (1 written paper, 3 hours )	100
(v) General Oral Examination	50
Total	400
Electrical and mechanical-
i.	Materials and construction (I written paper, 3 hours	100
ii.	Electrical installation and equipment in Government	50
      Buildings for candidates of electrical and Mechanical
      Divisions only
iii	Advance Electrical and Mechanical Engineering generation
transmission and distribution of Electric Energy including Meters and instruments for candidates of electrical and Mechanical
       Davison only	100
(iv) Accounts and office procedure( I written paper, 3 hours	100
(v) General oral examination ...	50
Total.	400
Town Planning.—
(i) Historical aspects of Town Planning ..	75
(ii) Principles of Town Planning and its :
      practical application including Design
      of Layout Schemes ..	75
(iii) Surveying ..	50
(iv) Town Planning In relation to-
(a) Engineering including Roads, Drainage, Water Supply Electric Installation.
(b) Architecture including civil centre roads including Parks and Gardens furnishing and illumination thereof.
N.B (a) for Engineers qualified in town planning and	50
(c) for architects qualified in town planning
      (v) laws and practice of town planning	100
      (iv)General oral examination	50
400
Chap. I	ESTABLISHMENT EXAMINATION
      Subject    Total Marks(i)	Historical Aspects of Architecture..75(ii)	Principles of Architecture and their      application.50(iii)	Design of a building to be drawn to
a scale of 8 feet to an inch and working drawings including half inch and full size details together with specification      estimate100(iv)	Theoretical and Practical Buildings      Construction75(v)	Drainage Water Supply and Electricity.50(vi)	General Oral Examination.50Total.400
      Note (l) Paper I above for Buildings and Roads, General Line, Public Health and Electrical and Mechanical will contain questions in all out of which 3 shall be common to all the candidates and the remaining 6 shall be separate for candidates from the General Line, Public Health. Circle and Electrical and Mechanical Offices.
      (2) Examination in paper General) Examination shall be held separately for Buildings and Roads Department, General Line, Public Health Circle and Electrical and Mechanical Offices candidates.
      (e) In order to pass, a candidate must obtain not less than 50 percent marks in each subject and an aggregate of not less than 60 percent of the total marks in all subjects. A candidate who fails in only one subject, but obtains not less than 66 percent of the total for other subjects, may be permitted to appear —again in the subject in which he failed In such cases he	must	obtain	not	less	than	60	percent	in	that
subject in order to pass. .
      (f) Details for the conduct of the Examination (i)
      The candidates will be provided with section paper, so that question involving engineering design may be answered by neat sketches with explanatory notes
(ii) Each candidate will be expected to bring his own drawing instruments and scales to the Examination Considerable importance will be attached to the neatness and accuracy of the sketches.
1.91-1.94)	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
(iii) The answers to the questions must be written so as to leave one quarter margin on which the examiners will record their masks against each question.
(g) In the event of the Secretary to Government, West Pakistan, Irrigation, Communications and Works Department, deciding that an Officer or a member of Senior Establishment Service has passed this examination, a notification to this effect will be published in the West Pakistan Government Gazette.
I-EMPLOYMENT ON LOCAL FUND WORKS
1.91. Members of the Department may be employed on Local Fund Works subject to the values in the Civil Service Rule of West Pakistan and to the rules in the- following paragraphs.
1.92. Members of the Department employed in an executive capacity upon Local Fund Works may be divided -into three classes, viz. -
1st—	Those- detached for the sole purpose of Superintending Local Fund
Works, and placed under the orders of the local civil authorities or local boards and paid entirely from local funds.
2nd— Those employed wholly on Local Fund Works which are constructed under the administration of - the Chief Engineer and according to the rules of the department.
3rd—	Those employed partly on Provincial, and partly on Local Fund Works.
1.93. Subject to the, condition in paragraph 1.94 Engineers or Overseers may at their own option and subject to the sanction of Government be permanently transferred to the first of these classes. Such persons will be treated as super numerations.
1.94. Any Engineer or Overseer permanently transferred can return -to the Department in his former grade only at the discretion, of the Government of West Pakistan but ‘whenever his services are required, he may be- brought back to the regular establishment of the Department by the order of- the Government in ‘the same or any higher grade it may think suitable, subject to the usual conditions regarding examinations, and the fixed proportions of the grades, if any.


      1.95. The rules in paragraphs 1.933 to 194 apply to Engineers and Overseer permanently transferred for employment on Local Fund Works. But there is no objection, under the same general restrictions to their temporary deputation for such employment, the officers being retained on the Buildings and Roads list and the entire charges borne by the local funds.
      I. 96. Persons of the second class mentioned in paragraph 191, viz., those employed in Local Fund Works which are carried out under the order of the Chief Engineer, will be subjected to the rules of the Department, Engineers and -Overseer may be thus employed on Local Fund Works at the pleasure of the West Pakistan Government.
      1.97. Officers of the Indian Service of Engineers and the Punjab Services of Engineers, Bahawalpur Service of Engineers Sind and. Khairpur Service of Engineers, Provincial Service of Engineer, North-West Frontier Province, Temporary Service of Engineers of Old Baluchistan State Union, including Temporary Engineers of all Integrating Units, - Subordinate Engineering Service and Overseers may at the discretion of the West Pakistan Government, be employed on Local Fund Works in addition to their regular duties, -when such employment is not detrimental to the public service.
1.98. No officer or subordinate in the Department may receive any additional emoluments -on account of the performance of any duties in connection with Local Fund Works, except as provided, in Rule &49 to 5.49 of Civil Service Rules (Punjab), Volume I, Part 1, extracted and reproduced in Annexure I to Chapter III, and corresponding rules of other integrating units.
J.TRANSFER
I-GENERAL
      1.19 . Before the transfer of any official of the Department from one Region to another, is carried out, a confidential report of his -character and qualifications should -invariably be forwarded to--the authority by whom the transfer is ordered, for transmission to the Region- to which he is under transfer. It should always be distinctly stated in the report whether the promotion of the officer would have been recommended, had be not been transferred.
II—INTER- PROVINCIAL TRANSFERS
      1.100 . Transfers of Officers of Indian Service of Engineer from the West Pakistan to
East - Pakistan and vice
Versa may be made by mutual arrangement between the transferring Governments. The Central Government ha aid‘) reserved the right to order such transfer should they be deemed desirable.
      All such transfers from one province to another will be reported to, and notified by the Central Government.
111—Inter-Departmental Transfers
      1.101 The following rules are laid down relating to the transfers of the services of a Government servant from one Government office or department to another:—
      I. It is the duty of a Government servant, who - wishes to have his services
transferred to a different Government office or department, to obtain the consent of the authority which makes appointment to his existing post before taking up the new employment. If he takes up the new employment without such consent, he commits a breach of discipline and is liable to be punished, in the last resource, by dismissal from his former post and consequent loss of pensionable service. Resignation of his former appointment will not protect him from this penalty.
       II. In granting or withholding consent to the acceptance by a subordinate of other
Government employment, the head of an office or department must - consider whether the transfer will be consistent with the interest of the public service. Permission should not be refused without strong reason, which should be recorded in writing.
III. The head of an office or department should not employ either temporarily or permanently an officer whom he knows, or has reason to believe, to belong to another establishment without the previous consent of the head of the office or department in which he is employed. In the rare case in which, for reasons which appear satisfactory I to the new employer, an officer cannot obtain, the required consent before taking up the new appointment the employment may be made conditional on consent being obtained at the earliest opportunity.
      The foregoing instructions apply equally to officers on leave whether with or without allowances. All leave allowances must ipso facto cease on taking up new employment other than work of a purely casual nature. See also Rule
Chap. I]	ESTABLISHMENT TEMPORARY	1.102-1.105
AND WORK CHARGED
IV. 2 of Civil Service Rule (Punjab), Volume I, Part I extracted and reproduced in Annexure ‘B‘ to this chapter, or the corresponding rules of the other, integrating units.
1.102 Government orders regulating applications for:-
      (a) Private employment;
      (b) Employment, in other Departments of Government or under other Government;
      (c) Permission to appear at examination for recruitment to services or posts;
K—EMPLOYMENT OF TEMPORARY AND WORK charged
ESTABLISHMENT
I—Temporary Establishment
      1. 103. (1 In order to meet the demand for extra supervision which may arise from time to time, as well as to. insure that the Buildings and Roads Establishment shall be capable of contraction as well as of expansion as the expenditure on works diminishes or increases, the permanent establishments may be supplemented by temporary establishments to such an extent as may be necessary, and varying in strength from time to time according to the nature of the work	to	be	done.
(2) Temporary establishment will include all such nonpermanent establishment, no matter under what titles employed as is entertained for the general purposes of a Division or a SubDivision, or for the purpose of the general supervision, as distinct from, the actual execution of a work or works.
(3)	All persons so engaged must be required to sign the declaration indicated in paragraph
1.105 Petty establishments and establishments whose pay is charged to works under paragraph 1.107 are exempted from submitting temporary service declarations.
      1.104 . The power to sanction temporary establishment has been delegated to the authorities named and to the extent specified in Finance Departments circular letter No. F.D.O.I.E.R) 16/59, dated 12th January 1969, as specified and reproduced in‘ Annexure B to Chapter II to this code
      1.105 Persons engaged against the temporary establishment will be on the footing of monthly servants and they must be clearly informed in writing that their employment carries with it absolutely no claim to pension, to any leave except under the rules framed by Government and they must be required to sign a declaration that this is clearly understood
1.106 —1.107	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE [CHAP
by them. If they are engaged for a special work their engagement lasts only for the period during which the work lasts. If discharged, otherwise when for serious misconduct before the completion of the work, they will be entitled to a month‘s notice or a month‘s pay in lieu of notice; but otherwise with or without notice, their engagement terminates when the work ends. If they desire to resign their appointments they will be required to give a month‘s notice of their intension to do so or forfeit a month‘s pay in lieu of such notice. The terms of engagement should be clearly explained to men employed in circumstances mentioned above.
      Proviso— In the case of persons officiating in a temporary vacancy their services may be terminated without notice at any time.
      1.106 within the limit of their power of sanction, as laid down in Government of West Pakistan Finance Department letter No, FD.SOI (S.R)	757/58 dated 1st November 1958 as
reproduced in Annexure ‘B‘ to Chapter U, the appointment, pay, promotion and reduction of all classes of temporary establishment will be regulated by the authorities competent to make appointments. In order, however, to secure uniformity, rates of pay and promotion will be regulated in accordance with general orders laid down by the Chief Engineer.
II. Work Charged Establishment
      (1) 07. Works establishment will include such establishment as is employed upon ‘to actual execution, as distinct from the general supervision, of a specific work, or of sub- works of a specific project, or upon the subordinate supervision of department labour, stores and machinery in connection with such a work or sub-works, provided that as an exception to the above miseries and mates employed in the interests of Government on the technical supervision of contractors work and khalasis attached to subordinates for assisting them on works will be treated as work-charged establishment. When employees borne on the temporary establishment are employed on work of this nature, their pay should for the time being, be charged direct to the work.
      (2) Works establishment does not include Clerks, Draft man, Subordinate or extra establishment of any kind for the Divisional or Sub-Divisional offices, such establishment being properly chargeable to temporary Establishment but where Dak Runners are employed solely for a particular work of a temporary nature, for a period not exceeding six months they may be treated as work-charged establishment.
ESTABLISHMENT TEMPORARY AND WORK CHARGED
      (3) The Chief Engineer, Regional Engineer Of officers and Superintending Engineers are empowered to classify as ‘Works’ or ‘Temporary’ those classes of establishment about whose correct definition there is a doubt) subject to the concurrence of the Audit Officer and to the proviso that general principles for entertainment of such establishment are not infringed
      (4) Chief Engineer, Regional Engineer officers and Superintending Engineers are authorized to waive the rule which requires that works establishment must be employed on a specific work and to determine, in such cases the proportions in which the cost of such establishment	shall	be	allocated	between	the	works	concerned.
      Note— As an exception to the general role, the cost of khalasis attached to sub ordinates may be charged to annual maintenance and repairs or other estimates in which maintenance and repairs or other estimates in Which provision for it has been suede with the sanction of the superintending Engineer.
      (5,) The cost of works establishment must be shown as a separate sub-head of the estimate for a work.
      (6)All pay bills for work-charged establishment shall be pre-audited by the Divisional Accountant and approved by the Divisional Officer before payment. Before a member of the work-charged establishment whose services have been dispensed with, is settled up, the Sub- Divisional Officer should invariably ascertain from the Divisional Officer if there are any
Out standings against the man.
      (7) Members of the work-charged establishment, other, than Road Inspectors who are engaged on the footing of monthly servants will be subject to discharge at 10 days’ notice except in the case of serious misconduct or gross inefficiency when no notice will be given), or on payment of pay for 10 days or for such period up to this extent as may be due to them in lieu of notice. Should they desire to resign they will be required to give 10 days’ notice or forfeit pay for this period or for such period up to this extent as may be due to them in lieu of notice.
      1.108. The powers of the various officers of the Buildings and Roads Department to sanction the entertainment of work charged establishment are specified in Annexure ‘A’ and ‘B’ to Chapter II of this Code.
      1-109 . A work-charged employee is not entitled to any pension, leave or travelling or other allowance except in the following cases:-
(1) (a), The work-charged establishment by the very nature of their duties cannot be treated as permanent Government employees.. It has been decided
1.109] PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	CODE-I
That they may be allowed the following concessions which should be considered as adequate, particularly when their daily wages or monthly wages are fixed on the assumption that they are Work charged Establishment and are not entitled to all the concessions which are otherwise available to permanent or temporary regular Government employees:-
   (i) Leave n all Sundays and Gazetted Holidays.
(ii) No earned leave will be admissible, as it may complicate matters and create a lot of work regarding maintenance of accounts, etc., but casual leave at the following scale may be allowed in additions to (i) above
      (a) Work-charged Establishment with more than five years continuous service .20 days.
      (b) Work-charged Establishment with service between two and five years .	10 days.
(c) Work-charged Establishment with less than two years but more than one year‘s service.	5 days.
      (d) Work charged Establishment with less than one year‘s service.	Nil.
(b) The casual leave mentioned above will be admissible to work-charged Establishment in each calendar year and will not be cumulative.”
(2) Transfer travelling allowance, i.e, single railway fare or actual travelling expenses including the cost of carriage of personal effects to Road Inspectors, Road Roller Drivers and Firemen, Mistries (including Electric Mistries), Electric Mechanics and employees on the work charged establishment in the Public Health Circle for themselves and dependent members of their families who are not male of over 18 years of age on the occasion of their transfer in cases of sheer necessity in the public interest, subject to the following	conditions:-
(a) The limits of travelling allowance relating to the cost of carriage of personal effects and the class of railway accommodation admissible to regular Government servants of the same grades are not exceeded .
Chap. I)	ESTABLISHMENT -POLICE AND	1.110-1.111
OTHER GUARDS
(b) the grant of travelling allowance will be at the discretion of the Divisional Officer;
(c) The transfer is from one place to another, except in the ease of Road Roller Drivers and
Firemen when travelling allowance will only be allowed for transfer from one Division to another.
(d) The journey performed is in the interest of work on which he is employed and not as a Disciplinary measure.
(3) Wound and other. Extraordinary pensions and gratuities in certain cases;
(4) Grain compensation allowance;
(5) Compensation wider Workman‘s Compensation Act. 1923 and ex-gratia payment of the amount which would have been statutorily payable if the accident had occurred in West Pakistan Buildings and Road, Department employees in the tracts to which the Act has not yet been applicable.
      Notes (1)- This rule doo not apply to members of the temporary establishment whose pay is charged to works under paragraph 1.107 of this code . The leave salaries travelling and other allowances of such establishment are regulated by the rules applicable to temporary establishment
      Note (2) Rules for the recovery of rent for work charged establishment are contained in paragraph 3 8.
L—POLICE AND OTHER GUARDS
      1.110. When marching or in camp on public duty, officers are allowed a guard for the protection of public property. Such guards are supplied by the Police Department, and. application for them should be made to the Superintendent of Police by the officer requiring them ,unless he be an Assistant Executive Engineer or of lower rank in which case the application should be made by the Divisional Officer. Such guards will not, how ever, be supplied unless the officer travelling is Incharge of Government money or valuable Government property, or the country is disturbed and no charge for them will be made by the Police Department.
      1.111. In all cases where through the inability of the Police Department to supply a guard from the regular police force special guards have to be entertained the sanction of Government will he necessary. Officers may, however, in urgent cases entertain the guard in, anticipation of sanction reporting heir action at once to higher authority. The services of such extra guards should be dispensed with directly they are no longer required. The cost of such guards will be allocated as laid down in sub-paragraph (2 infra.
1.112. 1-119	WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[CHAP. I
      (2) The cost of all treasure guards (Police establishment) when recruited, controlled, and paid, by the Buildings and Roads Department, will form a debit against the department and should be charged as petty establishment in the monthly bills of the Division, or against the special work for which they may have been engaged .
      1.112. . Divisional and Sub-Divisional Officers who have charge of public money may be allowed, as part of their establishment, a treasure guard, the strength of which will be fixed according to the circumstances in each case by the Chief Engineer, after obtaining the previous, approval of the Finance Department.
      (2) These guards should ordinarily be employed only for the custody and escort, of Government treasure, but may also be employed to carry specially valuable documents.
M—MEDICAL ESTABLISHMENT
I—GENERAL
      1.113. The Provincial Medical Service is divided into TO) branches, one for Medical Officer and the other for Assistant Medical Officer. The requirements of the Department will, as a rule, be met from the Provincial ‘establishment but on occasions when the service of a Medical Officer or Military Sub Assistant surgeon in Civil employment cannot be made available, a Military Sub Assistant. Surgeon may be obtained by, application to the Director-General, Pakistan Medical Service, through the Director, Health, Services West Pakistan.
      1.114. Medical Officer or Assistant Medical Officer will be allowed as a part of the Buildings and Roads establishment, and furnished with medicines at the public expense, wherever any large body of workmen is collected together. Sanction., to their appointment must be obtained under the usual rules, regarding increases of establishment, and application for the service of individuals to fill sanctioned appointments will be made through Superintendent Engineers to the Director, Health Services, West Pakistan.
11.-Pay and Allowances of Medical Establishment
1.115. Deleted.
1.116. Deleted
1.117. Deleted.
      III-Leave, Retirement anti Resignations M. Os &
1.118. Deleted.
IV—Removal
Deleted
CHAP I]	ESTABLISHMENT-MISCELLANEOUS	1.20-1.123
RULES
N- MISCELLANEOUS	RULES
1—Personne
      1.120. Officers of the Indian Service of Engineers and -other officers appointed by the Secretary of State before the introduction of Provincial Autonomy in 1937, are liable to a serve in any part of Pakistan unless stipulated otherwise in -their agreements. All other Officers of the Buildings and Roads Department are liable to serve anywhere within the West Pakistan and the Pakistan States in which works are being executed under the administrative control of the West Pakistan Government or in - which works controlled by that. Governments are situated unless	otherwise	expressly	stated	in	their	agreements.
      1.121. It is a breach of the Government Servants Conduct Rules for a Government servant to have a personal financial interest in a work for which he is responsible to Government
      In the Buildings and Roads Department it is forbidden -the Government Servant on. behalf of Government issue a -work order to sign a contract in favour of, or buy materials for Government work from any person who is related to him or in whose activities he is privately interested. For the -purpose of this rule, the term ‘related’ is to be interpreted as including relationship both close and emote.
      1. 122. Every member of the Department, whether civil -or military, must consider that his pay, for the time being. or as defined in any agreement, is his also legal remuneration, and that the receipt of commission, or any consideration, directly or indirectly on account o any business or transaction in which he may be concerned on behalf of Government, is prohibited. Every officer of Government is bound to report to his departmental superior any infringement of this rule which may come to his knowledge .See also paragraph 1.98
      Note— The rule regarding the grant of honoraria from general revenues and the acceptance of honoraria and fees from a source other than general revenues are contained in rule 5-49 to 5.96 to C. S. R., Punjab, Volume I part I as reproduced in annexure I to Chapter III of this code or corresponding rules of other in integrating unites .
II-COMPLAINT AGAINST OFFICIALS
1.123. No anonymous Communication regarding the - conduct of any Government officer shall be acted upon without the permission of Government, excepting an far as to Endeavour to remove any apparently well founded causes of complaint which do not affect the character of individuals. With the above exception, every complaint by or against any person in the department must be received, if allegations of a definite nature, which can be verified, are medical enquired into by his superior officer.
1.124.—1.125)	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[Chap. I
111—Procedure in regard law units
      1.124. When any officer or subordinate lathe department is personally sued in any Civil Court, by parties claiming from him wages or money arising out of transaction in which he is concerned only in his official capacity, and bona fide on behalf of Government, it will be necessary that he defends the suit by pleading that Government should be made the- defendant as the party really interested. But when the suit is for damages in respect of an alleged wrongful act of a Government Officer, the party aggrieved may, as a general rule, bring the suits against such officer, and it would be no defense for the officer sued to contend that Government ought to be the defendant. The plaintiff may legally contend that he- has a right to look to the party by whose act he has been aggrieved whether he could or could not have sued that party‘s principle, The distinction is between suits on contracts and suits wrongs. In case of the latter kind, it will remain with Government to determine whether it would be just and proper that the defiance should be carried on at the expense of Government .The course should ordinarily be adopted only in cases where there is on reasonable doubt of the innocence of the accused. When, on the other hand, there is prima facie evidence that he has acted improperly, he should be left to conduct his own defence, the question of Government contributing towards the cost of the defence being subsequently considered. Whatever be the nature of the case,‘ failure to defend the suit, or to reply to the plaint in person or by counsel, as the case may require, will render the officer	or	subordinate	personally	responsible.
(2) Principles as to the conditions in which Government which pay the cost of defiance of its servants in criminal proceedings, are laid down in Chapter 12 of the Punjab Law Department Manual (1938)or the corresponding rules of the Law Manuals of other integrating Units.
1.125. An officer receiving a subpoena to produce official documents in a Court of Law should, provided the documents be specified, produce them to the Court unless they are unpublished official records relating to any affairs of State, when he must refer to the officer at the head of his Department.
(2) The following instructions should be observed hen any Government servant is summoned to produce Government files in a Corn”. of law for the purposes of evidence-
(1) The law is stated in sections 123,124 and 162 of the Evidence Act under section 162, a Government servant if summoned by a Court of law as a witness to produce a document in his possession and power must brig it to the Court.
      —Document” is defined -
Chap-I	ESTABLISHMENT MISCELLANEOUS	1.125
RULES
In section 3 of the act. A file is not a. document, and the Court should insist on the required document being specified. A court may, however, to overcome the difficulty ask for the production of all documents in any particular file or relating to any particular subject. Objection cannot be taken under section 123 of the Act, to the production as evidence of any published official record or any unpublished record which is not official. But a Government servant is forbidden under section 123 to disclose in evidence any document which is an unpublished official record relating to an affair of State, or even to give evidence derived from such a document, without the permission of officer at the head of the department concerned. If the head of the department declares that the document is an unpublished official record relating to any affairs of State, even the court cannot inspect it, as correspondence between Government Officers and their superiors and unpublished orders are affairs of State. P privilege may be claimed in respect of any unpublished official document whether —Confidential” or not. The Court is bound under section 123 to determine the question of admissibility solely upon the objection and statement of the officer appearing with it.
(2) In regard to the production of documents in evidence before courts the following questions arise:-
      (a) whose permission should be obtained to the production of a document?
      (b) What documents should be allowed to be produced?
There is no authority as to the interpretation of the words —Head of Department” as used in section 123 of the Evidence Act, but for the purpose of this section it will be sufficient if that expression is taken to mean the head of the office in whose custody the document is and ,is-a-vis -vis the court which demands production, he should be the authority who withholds or gives the necessary permission. But in deciding what course he should take when required to product a document, he may, and often should, refer the matter executively	for	orders	to	a	superior	authority.
(c) 25	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT	( CODE .1
(3) The ordinary working rule relating to the supply of correspondence is that the permission of the- highest authority concerned in the correspondence is necessary before a copy is given. This rule should be operative in the case under consideration unless the - .correspondence is of a purely routine nature in which case the head of the office should ordinarily allow, production. If it is not of a purely routine nature, the head of the office should refer the matter through the usual channels to the authority concerned, who should ‘be guided by the following, principles:—
(a) He should ordinarily authorise the head of the office to allow production if the correspondence does not relate to matters which are usually, regarded as confidential or to matters which, are in dispute in some other connection, or which may be in dispute between Government and some other party.
(b) He should instruct the head of the office to withhold production when the conditions in -
      (a) above are not satisfied.
(c) If the matter is open to doubt, he should similarly refer the case for orders to still higher authority.
(4) In respect of documents emanating (1) from a higher authority, viz., the President of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, the Central Government or the. West Pakistan Government, or which have formed the subject of correspondence with such‘ higher authority, or (2) from other Governments, whether foreign or Dominion, the head of’ the Department should obtain the consent of the Central Government through the usual official channels before agreeing to produce the documents in Court, or allowing evidence based on them, unless the papers are intended for publication, or are of a purely formal or routine nature, when a reference to higher authority may be dispensed with. -
(5) The above instructions do not refer to the production of official correspondence on behalf of Government in judicial proceedings to which Government is a party. In such cases the question of production will be governed largely by the nature of the legal advise in regard to the value‘- or otherwise of their production, but when

RULES
 it is considered desirable to produce correspondence relating to matters, which are usually regarded as a confidential, the necessary reference should invariably he made to higher authority.
(6) The head of the office, from whom the production of document has been demanded, should abstain from entering into correspondence with the presiding officer of the Court concerned in regard to the reasons for which production is required. His correct procedure is to appear either personally or to arrange for the appearance of a Clerk, in the Court concerned with the requisitioned documents and either to agree to the production of the documents in evidence or to claim privilege according to the decision he has reached in pursuance of the principles enunciated in paragraphs 3 and 5 above. If he claims privilege he should produce or arrange for the production of, a certificate in the font given in sub-paragraph
      (7).
Note —The underlying principal on which the claim of privilege for unpublished official records relating to affairs of state rests is that, while the right decision of case is undo beadily a matter of high public interest there re documents and even classes of document in the case is in the custody of Government it whose protection from publication might be of even grater importance to the public interest .Accordingly in each case of the relevant kind the authority concerned must weight the interest of justice in the particular case against the arger public interest in .In deciding weather or not to claim privilege the possibility of Government gaining a pecuniary or advantage by with holding documents should	however	carry	no	weight
(7) The Government servant who has to attend a Court as witness with a file should be given an order, duly signed by the head of the department or head of office concerned, in the form below .When called to the witness-box the Government servant thou d produce this order and say that he is not it at liberty to produce the documents before the Court, or to give	any	evidence	derived	from	them.
ORDER
       SUMMON FROM THE COURT OF THE	FOR THE PRODUCTION
      AT 	OF THE OFFICER FILES RELATING TO THE 	
   (a) I direct		to appeal
Chap. 11	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT LODE	[1.126
with the flies mentioned in the summons a brief description of which is given below and to claim privilege for them under section 123 of the Evidence Act.
      *
(b) Having examined the documents mentioned in the summons I withhold permission to give any evidence derived from the files for which privilege is claimed under this order.
It should be represented to the court that these files contain unpublished official records relating to the affairs of state for the purpose of section 123 that, in view of the provisions of section 162 of the Evidence Act, the files are not open to the inspection of the court.
Head of Department
      Dated 		the	
*	Hero insert a brief desorption of the nature of the documents summonsed together with
the reasons for claiming privilege for example this document is a report of a criminal investigation Department officer making a secret inquiry into a case of fraud and it is undesirable in the interests of the inquiry that its contents should be disclosed.
      (8) It should seldom be necessary for a Civil Court to sent for files of a Government Office or for the record of a court. In many cases, a certified copy is sufficient (Sections 65 and 77 of the Indian Evidence Act).
      in cases where the production of an office file or a - public document in evidence is considered necessary and court calls for such file or document and desires to retain it as a part of the judicial file, the attention of the Presiding Officer should be drawn to the provision of Rule 5, order XIII of the Code of Civil Procedure. Under sub-clause (2) of this Rule it is open to a court, in cases where a document is an entry In a public record, to require a copy of the entry to be furnished by one or other party to the vase. Sub-clause (3) of the same Rule further lays down that the document n which the re event entry occurs shall ,after proper examination and certification of the copy, be returned to the person producing it. (High Court‘s letter No.47148- R/XX-C/16, dated the 23rd Mat 1938 and No.9917-R/XX-C/16,dated the 24th November 1941.)
      1126. Supervision of the legal affairs of the department is exercise by the Solicitor to whom references should be made through the Chief Engineer except in regard to certain .Civil suits for which the superintending Engineers are controlling authority under rule 15.1 and 15.2 Chapter 15 of the law Department.
Chap. I)	ESTABLISHMENT MISCELLANEOUS	1.127
RULES
(2	The conduct of all civil suits affecting Government or its officers in their officinal
capacity, will be in accordance with the rules contained in the Punjab Law Department Manual, and corresponding rules of other integrating units.
I V—Security Deposits
1.127 The classes of Establishment specified below must furnish cash security, the amount. (which will be subject in all cases to the minimum prescribed against each class) being fixed by the Chief Engineer. Regional Engineer Officer (in case of his office establishment ) and the Superintending Engineer (in case of men employed in his circle), with reference to the amount of cash or value of stores which each individual is to handle from time to time
or according to the circumstances and local conditions in each case.
1Cashiers, Permanent and temporaryRs. 500 plus two sureties, of Rs. 1, 000 each (The persons standing as sureties must own immovable	property	)2StorekeepersRs.2503Sub StorekeepersThe amount to be fixed in each case by the Chief Engineer regional Engineer
Officer in case of his establishment and by the superintending	Engineer	in	case	of
Establishment employed in his circle4Other establishment entrusted with the custody of each of stores5Store MunshiRs.220. At the time of appointment.6    (a) Temporary subordinatesRs.300 (Rs.1000 at the time of appointment and a bond with two sureties for the remaining sum of Rs.200 to be paid in 20 monthly in stamens of Rs.10 each the bond to be cancelled on completion of full security .
(b) Temporary sub Rs. 50 at the time of appoint ordinates employ on department survey work.


1.118—1.131)	PUBIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE
Notes -(1) No security is required to be taken from a permanent man.
      (2) No security need be taken from permanent clerks and other subordinator, when they are required to officiate in appointments in which security is generally takens if the officiating appointment is	not	expected to	continue	beyond	six months.
(3) The security deposit claimed on behalf of a deceased Pubic Works Department subordinate should be paid without the production of the usual legal authority after such inquiry into the rights and title of the claimants as may be deemed sufficient
(1) to the extent of Rs. 500 under orders of the Executive Engineers or other officer responsible for the payment, (2) under the orders o Government for amounts in excess of Rs. 500, lb is considered that the rights and title of the claimants are proper and that undue delay and hardship. would be caused by insisting on the production of letters of administration. An indemnity bond, with such sureties an may be necessary, should be executed before payment is made. In any case of doubt payment should be made only to the	person	producing	legal	authority.
V—STATIONERY AND FORMS
1.128 .	Stationery is supplied to public officers by the Government Stationery Office
(Head quarter and others regional headquarters Officers other than those to whom power has been delegated as per Annexure A & B to Chapter II of this Code are prohibited from obtaining elsewhere articles which can be procured from the Stationery Office except under orders of Government in each case
(2.)	No articles of stationery whether for English or Vernacular work that is available
in provincial or regional Stationery offices should be purchased locally. Local purchase will,, however, be permissible only in the case of cheap indigenous articles of inferior quality. required for use in the Vernacular Offices, and not available in Provincial and Regional Stationery officers .
1.129 . The rules regarding the supply and preparation of indents for the various kinds of printed forms in use in the Department are laid down in the Printing and Stationery Manual and should be carefully observed.
1.130 All officers entrusted with a supply of stationery and forms for their official use will take proper precautions to keep them in the custody of a responsible and trustworthy person and to maintain a record of the receipts, issues and balances. Stock should be verified annually and the certificate of verification recorded in the register of stationery over the signature of a gazetted or other responsible officer
1.131 Standard forms cannot be altered without the previous sanction of the Chief Engineer, Buildings and Roads Department or in the case of Accounts forms of the Comptroller and Auditor-General of Pakistan, or Director, Audit and Accounts Works, West Pakistan, who will, however, obtain concurrence of the Government in the Administrative Departments to any important changes or modifications. Alter aments to any additions to nonstandard or provisionally stand
Chap I]	ESTABLISHMENT-MISCELLANEOUS [1.132-1.134
RULES
standardized forms will not be made without the sanction of the Head of the Department or the Controlling Officer as the case may be
      1.132 . Forms of deeds and other documents which are not already stereotyped will be settled by the Law Officers of the Government and furnished through the Chief Engineer to whom all applications on such matters should be addressed
VI—Destruction of Official Records .
      1.133 When a minimum period after which any class of records may be destroyed has been presented by Government in Irrigation, Communications and Works Department Divisional Officers may order in writing the destruction of such record, in their own and subordinate offices on the expiry of that period counting from the last day of the latest official year covered by the record Superintending Engineers are competent to sanction the destruction of such other record in their own and subordinate offices as may be considered unless but a list of such records as properly appertain to the accounts of the department should be forwarded to the Audit officer for his concurrence in their destruction before the destruction is ordered by the superintending Engineer full details should be maintained permanently in each officers Pakistan woman association from 97 of all records destroyed from time to time The following should on no accounts be destroyed .
(i) Records connected with expenditure which is within —the statue of limitation — —Estimates and Level Books of the Major Works”
 (ii) Record‘s connected with expenditure on woks not completed although beyond the person of limitation.
(iii) Records connected with claims to service and personal matters connected with persons in the service.
       (iv) Records of experiments and observations.
      (v) Calculations relating to particular designs .
(2) The various kinds of records and the periods fixed for their preservation arc given in Appendix II of this code
(3) The destruction of records will always be subject to any general 01 special rules issued by the by the Buildings and toads Department Manuals of Orders
VII—General rules, of office procedure
1.134. No Officer should correspond direct with an authority superior to the office under whom he is immediately serving or with .
1.135-1.137 PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[Chap. I
the West Pakistan Government or the Central Government, out of the regular course, except in a case of extreme emergency, in which case he must send copies of his communications to his immediate superior. All Gazetted Officers may‘ write direct to the Director (Establishment) about	personal	matters	when	no	reply	is	required.
(2) Officers are similarly prohibited from approaching members of Legislatures or Ministers either personally or through the medium of a friend or relation or to disclose to them information of which their knowledge is official and not personal.
1.135. Letters containing proposals concerning other departments should, so far as is needful, be accompanied by reference to the opinion of the officer concerned (in the case of a building, of the officer occupying it) and of the head of the department on the spot.
1.136. Demi -official correspondence should be made use of sparingly and only in cases of extreme urgency or secrecy, or to supplement and explain a matter which has been or is about	to	be,	referred	officially.
(2) No demi-official correspondence should be quoted or referred to in official communications, and, unless such ‘correspondence has been brought on record with the approval of Government, order conveyed in it cannot be regarded as being the official orders of Government. It is, therefore, necessary that all instructions which have in the first instance, been conveyed demi-officially should be confirmed in an official communication.
1.137. The following rules prescribe the methods of dealing with secret and confidential correspondence; maps and books should be treated in the same way
(i) In all offices, care should be exercised in deciding whether a particular documents is to
be classified as ‘secret” or —Confidential” or not and the decision should invariably be made by a responsible authority. While it is essential that all papers, the contents of which are in reality secret or confidential, should be so treated in every offer to which they are sent, it is also very desirable that the same treatment should not be extended, as is often the case, to papers whose contents are neither secret nor confidential. An indiscriminate use of these designations produces much unnecessary trouble and waste of time, and has its danger intending to lessen the attention which is paid to them. Papers may
ESTABLISHMENT-MISCELLANEOUS RULES
 Sometimes be secret or confidential only until the occurrence of .some particular event or announcement, and in such cases it is useless to continue afterwards to treat them in this way.
(ii) Secret documents, being intended only for the personal information of the Government or individual to whom they are issued or of those officers whose duties they affect, should be kept by the officer, to whom they are addressed, in his persona) custody. The documents should be locked in a safe or other receptacle, of which the officer should himself keep, the key or keys. A list of such documents should be maintained by him and also of confidential correspondence kept by him (if any) and when relieved of his appointment, he should hand over the keys and he list to his successor. An exception may be made in the case of the Secret Police abstracts, which may be treated as if they were marked confidential.
(iii) Confidential correspondence should ordinarily be kept’ ‘in office under lock and key ‘in the custody‘ of the Superintendent or Head Clerk but the officer to whom the correspondence is ‘addressed will exercise his discretion, as to the necessity of retaining it in his own personal custody.
(iv) The Superintendent or Head Clerk will keep tinder lock and key all confidential
documents in his custody and will maintain a proper receipt, issue and return register therefore.
(v) On taking over charge on transfer, an officer should show in his transfer report that he (a) has received all the documents shown in the list referred to in rule (ii) above, and (b) has seen documents shown by the Superintendent or Head Clerk‘s‘ register to be in the custody of the Superintendent or Head Clerk. Any irregularities noticed should be included in his report. A new Superintendent or Head Clerk on receiving charge will report to his ‘superior officer whether he has received/in good order (or otherwise), all the ‘confidential correspondence made over to him by his predecessor.
(vi) The list ad register referred to ‘above should be periodically examined with a view to destroying, or amalgamating with general (Correspondence any correspondences. (other than maps or books) which has ceased to be secret or confidential.
vi.138- 1.139) WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[Chap.
(vii) No hard and fast rules need be laid down for the copying and issue of confidential letters,
it being left to the discretion of the officer to decide by whom the work may safely be done.
(viii) When confidential papers are sent out of an office they should be put into double sealed covers The inner one should be marked —confidential” and be superscripted. whenever this is possible, with the name of the addressee, who alone should open it The outer cover should have no marking any kind on it to indicate that its contents are of a confidential nature and should bear the official designation of the addressee only Letters or packets containing se ‘ret or confidential papers should unless the resultant delay is fatal to the object in view, invariably be registered, and those containing secret papers should also be sent acknowledgement due Certain secret and confidential books, reports maps, ete, are issued by Army Headquarters direct to the Heads of Provincial Government and Administrations who are held personally responsible to the Chief of the General Staff for their safe Custody Instructions have been issued by the Chief of the General Staff for the custody and disposal of such papers, and these instructions should be carefully observed Subordinate officers to whom these secret documents are entrusted by the West Pakistan Government should observe the same instructions.
I. 138 The scale of typewriters allowed for use in the various offices of the Buildings and Roads Department is given in the Printing and Stationery Manual Machines required in excess thereof can only be purchased with the previous sanction of Government an the Irrigation-Communications and Works Department with the approval of the Finance Department.
(2)	Only machines of patterns approved by the West Pakistan Government-vide paragraph
11.1 of the printing and Stationery Manual may be purchased. Typewrites of other patterns already in use may be retained until‘ they become unserviceable and are condemned.
VIII-PERIODICAL RETURNS
1.139 With regard to periodical returns not prescribed by Government Officers to whom such returns are submitted should institute, at convenient interval.
Chap 1]	ESTABLISHMENT -MISCELLANEOUS [1.139
RULES
      of time examination into the necessity for each return, with a view to discontinue any that may be found to be no longer necessary
A list of periodical returns will be found in Appendix
IV of this Code.
(2) A list showing the reports and returns prepared under the orders of the West Pakistan Government or any other authority and submitted to or by Government in the Irrigation Communications and Works Departments and other authorities subordinate to it, is prepared and supplied to subordinate offices from time to time.
(3) No returns should be instituted without the previous approval of the Chief Engineer, as soon as to becomes apparent that any report or return is no longer necessary or can with advantage be curtailed or submitted at longer intervals than laid down in the list noted above, proposals should be submitted to the Chief Engineer, West Pakistan, Buildings and Roads Department through the proper channel .
CHAPTER II
WORKS
A-CLASSIFICATION OF THE OPERATIONS OF THE
BINDINGS AND ROADS DEPARTMENT.
       21) The operations of the department are divided primarily into two classes —Original Works” and “Repairs”. It is important that the expenditure under each class should be accounted for separately.
       22) (1) The term —original works” indicates new construction whether of entirely new
works or additions and alterations to existing works, except as hereinafter provided; also all repairs to newly purchased or previously abondoned buildings or works required for bringing them into use.
       23) The term —repairs” indicates primarily operations under taken to maintain in proper condition buildups and works in ordinary use. It also includes new works in circumstances indicated	in	clauses	(3)	and	the	‘exception”	to	clause
       (5) below.
       24) When a portion of an existing structure or other & ‘work not being a road, road surface, road bridge, causeway, €embankment, ferry approach, protective or training work in connection with a road, is to be replaced or remodeling .(whether or not the change involves any dismantle and the cost of the change represents. a genuine increase in the value of the property, the work of replacement or remodeling as the case may be, should be classed as —original work”, the cost (which should be estimated if not known) of the portion replace or remodelled being credited to the estimate for —original work” and debited to —repairs. When any disentanglement is involved and serviceable materials are recovered from. the dismantlement, the cost of such materials should be credited to —repairs” in all other cases the whole cost of the new work should be charged to —repairs”
       Note (I) -In the case of the Buildings, the capital value of any part of a building which is abandoned or dismantled without replacement, should be written off the total capital value of the building, in any pro forms account of its cost.
       Note (2)—The expenditure on minor additions and alterations to buildings, up to a certain monetary limit to be fixed by Government may be classed at the discration of the Superintending Engineer as petty works expenditure and debited to repairs; provided that if suck works relate to residences, the coat is taken into a into account in determining the capital cost and in calculating the rent in accordance with the rules issued by Government
       (4)Government has fixed Its. 200 as the monetary limit upto which expenditure on minor additions and alteration, but excluding the purchase of new articles of furniture, for
[2.2)	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE [CHAP. I
residential buildings may be classed as repairs. This is subject to the conditions that the rental value of the building calculated according to Annexure ‘B‘ of this Chapter or the equivalent rules of corresponding Civil Services Rules of other integrating units shall not exceed 10% of the average is intended.
      (5) When an existing portion of a road, road bridge causeway, embankment, ferry approach, protective or training work in connection with a road is to be replaced or remodelled (whether or not the change represents any dismantlement) and the change represents a genuine increase in the value of the property, the whole cost of the replacement or remodeling, as the case may be, should be classed as —original work” and the cost or value of the portion replaced or remodeled	should	not	be	debited	to	—repairs”.
      Exception—Petty and miscellaneous items of work, as hereinafter described, which ordinarily should be classed as —original work” should be debited to repairs up to a limit of Rs. 10,000 in any one case; provided that the work in question do not in the opinion of the Superintending Engineer form part of any comprehensive scheme or project coveted by a work‘s estimate.
    (a) Super-elevation at curves.
(b) Widening the formation or carriageway of a road; widening a dram, or cutting back a lull side to improve vision at curves, provided that the acquisition of land is not involved in any case.
(c) (Improvements of alignments or gradients or changes of grade Irish bridges or dips, carried out at the time of renewing a surface, provided that the question of land is not involved in any case
(d) Improvements to or reconstruction of the surface of a road in some different material where it is desirable to carry out such improvement or reconstruction at the time of renewing a surface.
(e) The construction or reconstruction of road surface in different materials for the purposes of experiment .
(f) The construction or remodeling of bridges, c culverts, causeways, embankment; ferry approach, project or training works in connection with a road.
Chap. -II]	WORKS —ADMINISTRATION APPROVAL 2.3-2.3)
AND TECHNICAL SANCTION
   (g) ) Providing additional guard stones at bad curves and on high banks.
(h) Providing ordinary road direction posts, caution or danger boards and gauge posts for indicating depth of water over causeways and Irish bridges.
(i) Surveys of land in charge of the Buildings and Roads Department for the purpose of verifying encroachments or the execution of minor works, provided that no special Establishment	is	engaged	thereon.
(6) In addition to all repairs and renewals in manner similar to that pre-existing, the following items of road work should be closed as “repairs-
(i) (Ordinary repairs and maintenance including: surface painting and the necessary addition of stone chips, gravel or sand but not including ash phaltic concrete, premix asphalt, macadam, bitumen grout, bitumen, semi grout, mix-in-place cement concrete or cement macadam.
ii)	Special repairs and periodical renewals
(iii)	Petty and maintenance of items of Work, as described in —exception” to clause (5)
above.
      23. The maintenance of a work itself constructed from Capital funds should constitute a charge -against the same Capital head if the charge -for maintenance are incurred on a section of the work the original construction of which has not been completed .
      Maintenance of such of the sections of the Construction Scheme as has been opened for working should, however, be charged to Revenue irrespective of the fact whether the F whole Scheme has been completed or not Any such charge incurred subsequent to completion of the original work should however, go against Revenue.
B—ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL AND TECHNICAL SANCTION
24. For every work proposed to be carried out except petty works and repairs as described in paragraphs 2.18 and 2.20 and repairs for which a lump sum provision has been sanctioned by the Superintending Engineer under paragraphs 2.54, a properly detailed estimate must be prepared for the sanction of competent authority this sanction is known as
2.5-2.6)	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE
The technical eviction to the estimate. (Except where definite provision is made in this Code to the contrary, such sanction can only be accorded by the Government in the Irrigation Communication and Works Department, or where power has been delegated to the Building and Road Department, by officers of that department. Sanction accorded to the construction of a work by any other department of Government is to, be regarded merely as an administrative approval of the work, as define in‘ the following paragraph, and the fact that such approval has been accorded in no way dispenses with the necessity for & further technical sanction, which must be obtained before the construction of the work is commenced
Note—No work technical be started without administrative approval technical sanction and allotment of funds.
      2.5. Before technical sanction is accorded as in para 2.4 above, an —Administrative approval” should be obtained in the manner stated in para 2.6, for every work (excluding repairs and petty work) initiated by, or connected with the requirements of, an Administrative Department. Administrative approval will thus be concurrence and formal acceptance of Administrative Department concerned to the incurring of the proposed expenditure in the Building and Road Department, and in effect will amount to an orders to execute specified works at a stated sum to meet the Administrative requirements of that Department. Such approval should, not, however, be accorded until the processional authorities have intimated that the proposals are structurally sound and that the rough cost estimate is sufficiently correct for the purpose. A similar procedure should be followed in the case of works required to meet the administrative needs of the Buildings and Roads Department and for works at particularly connected with any other branch of the administration both the administrator approval and the technical sanction being accorded, in such cases, by the Government in the Irrigation Communication and Works Department, or officers subordinate to it
Note—(l)— the words —approval” and —sanction — respectively when used in respect of estimates for works bear throughout this code the meaning indicated in this and the foregoing paragraph.
Note. (2)— Administrative approval for repairs and petty works is required in cases definitely prescribed annexure —E” to this chapter.
2.6 An application for administrative approval should be submitted to the authority competent to accord it, accompanied: a preliminary report, a rough cost estimate, preliminary report	information	as	to	the	site	and	other	details
‘1
[Chap. II)	WORKS ADMINISTRATION APPROVAL	3.7
AND TECHNICAL SANCTION
as may be necessary fully to elucidate the proposals and the reasons therefore The approximate estimate and preliminary plans should be obtained from the Buildings and Roads Department If, however, the work is not likely to cost more than Its. 10,000 detailed plans and estimates may be prepared in ‘r the first instance and submitted to the authority competent to accord administrative approval, being returned thereafter to the officer of the Buildings and Roads Department competent a: to accord technical sanction.
1.7 The procedure of the foregoing rule fill also apply to modifications of the proposals originally approved, if likely to necessitate the eventual submission of a revised estimate, to material deviations from the original proposals even though the cost of the same may possibly be covered by savings on other items, and to cases where the detailed estimates, when prepared, exceed the amount administratively approval by more than 5 per cent. In these cases, as also in cases in which it becomes apparent during the execution of the work, that the amount administratively approved will be exceeded by more than 10.25 per cent, or the amount of the technical sanction will be exceeded by more than 5 per cent, owing to increase of rates or other causes, the revised administrative approval of competent authority must be obtained to the increased expenditure without delay and in the case of modifications during construction, without awaiting the preparation of a detailed supplementary or revised estimate. In the case, however, of expenditure from Central Revenues, the rules laid down by the Central Government must be followed.
Note—	This rule does not interfere with the powers of authorities subordinate to the west
Pakistan government to pass excess up to 5 per cent over the amount of original estimates in the case of expenditure form provincial revenues as in serial number 2 of rule 10.8 of departmental Financial Rules (Punjab) reproduced below (or equivalent rules of the corresponding financial rules of the other Integrating Units) even though the amount administratively approved Is thereby exceeded more than 5 per cent.
Serial NoNature of powerTo whom delegatedExtent   1   2   3   4To deal finally with all excess on the amounts of original estimate sanctioned y himself or by a high authoritySuperintending engineer Department Buildings and roadsUp to limit of 5 per cent of the amount of the original estimate or Rs.500 whichever is more
[24—2.11)	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	CHAP-II
Serial NoNature of powerTo whom delegatedExtent   1   2   3   42. to pass finally all excess over the amounts of original estimates sanctioned by himself or by higher authoritiesExecutive EngineerWithin the limit of 5 percent of the sanctioned of estimated provided the amount does not exceed the limit of their powers to sanction estimates technically
 2.8. In the case of works required not for a particular department, but in the interests of the Genera Public, e.g., communications and miscellaneous improvements, preliminary designs and estimates should be submitted for scrutiny by the administrative department concerted before a detailed estimate is prepared for the purpose of technical sanction.
2.9. Administrative approval should be applied for as soon as the necessity for a work is apparent.
       2.10. The Original proposals for all works for which administrative approval, is required under paragraph 2.5 will ordinarily be made by the District or Departmental Officer concerned, who will call upon the Divisional Officer for a rough approximate estimate of cost of the proposed work. The application to the Divisional Officer should be accompanied by an explanation of the requirements and a brief statement of the general nature and extent of the work propose together with information points such as rainfall, soil, water level, quality of sub soil water, direction of prevailing winds, liability of sites to floods, etc.
       2.11. The Divisional Officer will then prepare and furnish to the Departmental Officer concerned, the requisite pencil drawings and rough estimate of cost who, if satisfied with the plans, will pass them on to his official superior for the purpose of‘ obtaining administrative approval, accompanied by dates of rainfall, soil condition, water level, quality of sub soil water, direction of prevailing wind, liability of site to flood etc duly verified at site. If not, and i the difference of opinion is one which cannot be settled after further reference to the Divisional Officer, he will forward the project to the‘ Head of his Department for orders.
       2.12. ‘The	preparation	of	designs	for	buildings	should
be left to the officers of the buildings and Roads Department
Chap -II	works registration by civil officers	2.12-2.10
who in special cases ma obtain the services and advice of the Consulting Architect,
2.13. In cases where administrative approval for a certain sum has been accorded to a project by Government the Read of the Department concerned, should not, of his own authority and without previous reference to Government direct the Buildings and Roads Department to provide for extensive additions and alternations and thus exceed the estimated cost by, more than 5 per cent, necessitating the submission of an application for revised administrative approval
2.14. The powers of Government and of authorities subordinate to it to accord ‘ administrative approval to works are given in Rules 9.3 and 10.4 of Departmental Financial Rules (Punjab) as amended vide letter No.F.I-SOI-F(2)-/59, dated 12th January 1959 from the Government of West Pakistan, Finance Department as reproduced in Annexure A and ‘B‘ respectively to this Chapter.
C—REQUISITION BY CIVIL OFFICERS
I—GENERAL
2.15. Applications for new buildings, and for additions or alterations to existing buildings required for the use of any Department, should he made by the officer of the department a concerned, in communication with the Divisional Officer,- vide also paragraphs 24 etc seq
2.16. The local head of a civil department may call upon the Divisional Officer to report on any proposals for additions or alterations to the buildings in his use and to state roughly the probable cost, but Divisional Officers cannot be required, except by their departmental superiors to prepare the detailed drawings and estimates required for the purpose of technical sanction, of projects which they consider likely to cost a sum greater than that which can be administratively approved by the local ,head of the department concerned, or those, however, small their probable cost, in the necessity for which they do not concur.
2.17. The Divisional Officer must in each case exercise bus, judgment on the demand made, giving all proper weight to the opinion of the officers of the departments concerned; but it is his ‘duty to oppose any application of the funds at disposal to works about the real necessity of which he is not
[2.17—1.19)	PUBLIC WORKS department CODE [Chap. 117
satisfied ,and in every case in which he thinks that he cannot recommended the execution of work called for by a duly constituted authority he should explain his objections, to the officer concerned, and, if he fails to convince him, should refer the matter for the orders of the Superintending Engineer At the same time he should see that such references are not made unnecessarily.
      217. The actual execution of works, asked for by civil officers, must in every case be dependent on the necessary funds being specifically sanctioned by the competent authority No work shall be taken up without Administrative Approval, Technical sanction and funds.
      II—Procedure in regard to original petty works costing Rs. 2,500 or less.
2.18. The following procedure will be adopted in the case of new petty works or additions required by civil authorities the cost of which is not likely to exceed Rs.2,500
(j) The requisition will be made by the officer for whose convenience the work is required, in Buildings and Roads Account Form. No.32 (Petty Works requisition and Account).
(ii) The Divisional Officer, or an assistant or subordinate empowered by him to act in such cases, will record on the requisition his opinion as to what work should be done, and give on the face of the requisition a rough estimate of the probable cost,
(iii) The acceptance by the responsible civil officers of the estimate as sanctioned by the Divisional Officer Will be sufficient authority for the execution of‘ the work; provided that allotment of funds have been made by competent authority.
      (iv) In case of the civil officer not being satisfied with the report of the deputed subordinate of the department he should refer to the Divisional Officer.
Note—The procedure for obtaining administrative approval laid down in pare graph 2.6 win apply in the case of petty works of the Buildings and Roads Department.
      111—Procedure in regard to original works costing more than Ps. 2,500
2.19 If the work be likely to cost more than Rs. 2,500 the following procedure must be adopted.
(i) The work must be applied for or reported necessary by the local head of the department concerned, who‘
will apply for administrative approval to the authority who is competent to accord such approval. The application should be accompanied by such sketch plans, description and explanation of the necessity for the work as may be necessary
(ii) After administrative approval has been accorded by competent authority, detailed design and estimate with a proper report and a specification, must be prepared under the order of the Divisional officer and countersigned by him in token of or approval.
(iii) The detail plans and estimates will then be sent to the local head of the department who applied for the execution of the work, for countersignature. The Divisional Officer will then accord technical sanction if the amount of the estimate falls within the limits of his powers or otherwise forward it to the Superintending Engineer who will, should it exceed	his	powers	of	technical	sanction,	for
warded it to the Regional Officer who will, should it exceed his powers of technical sanction,	forward
it to the Chief Engineer ,and who will, should it exceed his powers of technical sanction, forward it to Government.
   (111) Funds for the work must be allotted before the work can be commenced. -
IV—Procedure in regard to repairs:
220. The procedure to be followed in the case of repairs is as follows:-
      (a) The requisition will be made by the civil officer concerned
(b) The Divisional Officer having satisfied himself as to the necessity for the work shall get the estimate sanctioned and having arranged for the appropriation of funds by competent authority, will then order the immediate execution of the work.
V—Limitation of sanction,
221. Nothing in these rules is to be construed as permission to officers to carry out in portions any group of work or alterations or to make purchases of which the cost in the
2.22	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE [CHAP. II
aggregate would exceed what they are empowered to sanction under the rules D-PREPARATION OF PROJECTS
I—General -
2.22 The papers to be submitted with the project for a work will consist of a report, a specification and a detailed statement of measurements, quantities and rates, with an abstract showing the total estimated cost of each item. These documents together form what is called —the estimate” in the sense of this Code. In the case of a project consisting of several works, the report may be a single document for all the works and likewise the specification; but details of measurements and abstracts may conveniently be prepared for each work, supplemented by a general abstract bringing the whole together. In the case of estimates for —Repairs” or —Maintenance”, only the specification and the detailed statement of measurements and quantities wit the abstracts will ordinarily be required. The report should state in clear terms the object to be gained by the execution of the work estimated for, and explain any peculiarities which require elucidation, including, where necessary, the reasons for the adoption of the estimated project or design in preference to others.
      Whenever the alignment of a new road, drain, pipe-line or sewer, etc., passes close to, or involves any alteration to or diversions of pre-existing railways or canals or interfere with any works or land appertaining to the same, the written acceptance of the authorities in charge of such railways or Irrigation work to the proposals involved by the construction of the new road, drain, pipe-line or sewer, etc., must invariably be obtained before any work thereon is put in hand, and the Buildings and Roads Department authorities concerned should, therefore, obtain the views of the responsible Railway or Irrigation authority in such cases during the survey.
      Enquiry should also be made from the Railway and Canal Administration by the Buildings and Roads Department, s to whether any railway or canal work is proposed which would affect the proposed road, drain, pipe-line or sewer, etc. If after consultation with the Railway or Canal Administration it is found that any additions or alterations to the proposed road, drain, pipe-line or sewer, etc., would be required owing to such work as is contemplated by the Railway or Canal	Administration being
carried out, the buildings and Roads Department authority concerned should make provision for the addition or alteration in the estimates and plans.
[Chap.II	WORKS —PREPARATION OF PROJECTS	2.22
      The report should also discuss the effect that proposed words will have on any existing engineering works, such as Railway embankment, bridges, siphons ,and •culverts and should clearly state whether the concurrence of the requisite Railway, Road or other authority has been obtained. The copy of such concurrence be attached with the estimate.
(1) Estimates should always be prepared in detail as this ensures that the officer who is responsible has given proper consideration to the requirements of the work, and is in possession of as much information as it is possible to obtain beforehand. No lump sum provision should be made in estimates.
Detailed estimate for the construction of a building should contain information as to rates (i) per square foot of plinth‘ area (ii) per cubic foot of cubic contents.
(2) Before any detailed plan and estimate are prepared the administrative approval of Government or the Head of the Department concerned or other. Officers competent to accord such approval should be obtained. As soon as administrative approval has been received from the competent authority, the Divisional Officer will take up the preparation of the detailed estimate, Technical Sanction to which will be accorded by the authority competent in order as that the work	may	be	started,	as	soon	as	funds	are	allotted.
(3) Design for residences costing more than Es. 15,000 should be prepared by Consulting Architect.‘
(4) Consulting Architect should be asked to prepare drawings in the case of all important public buildings costing over us. 75,000. Below this amount all drawings be prepared by Divisional ‘Officer. All plans for alterations to buildings designed in the Consulting Architect’s officer should be prepared in that office irrespective of the cost of the proposed alterations.
(5) The Buildings and Roads Department do net under take the provision of furniture which is purchasable by the Departments requiring it except in the ease of Laboratories where working benches, sinks, taps, etc will be arranged by the Buildings and Roads Department.
(6) Proper co-ordination should exist between different branches of the Buildings and Roads Department and others of other Departments in respect of preparation of plans and
Estimate and execution of works. Divisional Officers, Incharge of buildings, will be responsible to obtain detailed estimate of Public Health and E. and Mt. works from the respective Divisional Officers before sending these for technical sanction.
      (7) Officers of other services,. e.g., Medical and Educational should very closely examine the plans and estimates, for buildings sent to them for approval with regard to the provision made for and the position of, sanitary and electric fittings and other fixtures so that unnecessary changes may be avoided.
      (8) Before detailed estimates for bridges are made, trial pits or borings should be taken for each pier and abutment.
      (9) It is necessary to make a careful preliminary investigation of the sub-soil it order to assertion the exact nature of the strata and determine accurately the suitability of sites for bridges, large buildings, roads,. etc., and the departs to which foundations should be taken, or the crust designed accordingly.
      2.23 To facilitate the preparation of estimates, a schedule of rates of each kind of work commonly executed should be kept up in each Division, and the rates entered in the estimate should generally agree with the schedule rates, but where, from any cause these are not considered sufficient, or in excess, a detailed statement must be given in the report showing the manner in which the rate used in the estimate is arrived at. —There will be Schedule of Rates for each Region sanctioned by the Regional Officer after the prior concurrence of the Chief Engineer, Buildings and Roads Department, West, Pakistan. Every year in July the Regional Officer will examine be rates and revise them where necessary with the prior concurrence of the Chief Engineer. After every- five years a new schedule or rates with all amendments incorporated in it shall be issued by the Regional Engineer with the approval of the Chief Engineer.
      2.24 . Fractions of rupees will be omitted in showing the total cost of each kind of work in the abstract of the estimate and miscellaneous petty works may be entered without measurements, the estimated cost along being given as a lump sum.
      2.25 The abstract of the estimate may, under instructions of the Superintending Engineer, be framed to show merely the quantity and cost of each completed item or work,
[Chap. II	WORKS -PREPARATION OF PROJECTS	2.28
e.g., brickwork, or it may be framed to show the cost of labour and materials separately. If it is proposed to contract for a completed item of work such as masonry, etc., than the first mentioned from of abstract will suffice, if it is intended to purchase or procure material and to employ labour for construction separately, then the second form of abstract will admit of a closer, easier and earlier check on the outlay and it will, therefore, be preferable.
      Note- When the number of sub heads of en estimate is large, it will be found convenient to assign a number to each sub-head and to prefix this number to the name of the sub-head, wherever it is used on vouchers, works abstract, registers of works or other accounts. The whole cost should be abstracted in general abstract.
      2-26. (1) Provision should be made in the estimate for all incidental expenditure which can be foreseen, such as cost of land, hutments for workmen, sheds for stores, hiring of godowons Dewatering and pumping arrangements, etc., while in addition .provision of 3 per cent	and	5	per	cent	for	major
-and minor works respectively on the estimated cost of works should be made to cover contingencies which cannot be foreseen.
      (2) The provision for contingencies may be diverted by the Superintending Engineers and Divisional Officers to any new work or repair not provided for in the estimate, to the extent shown in rule 10-5 of the Department Financial Rules (Punjab) reproduced in Annexure P. to this Chapter, (or equivalent rules of the corresponding Financial Rules of other -integrating units).
      (3) To cover the, cost of petty work) establishment employed on works under paragraph 1.131 of this Code, a provision of 2 per cent may be made in all estimates on the estimated cost of works in which it is deemed necessary to employ such establishment. In the case of intramural drainage, sewage and water-supply works, however, provision for —petty establishment —may be made‘ up to 3 per cent of the estimated cost. These percentages cannot be exceeded without the previous approval of Government (the consent of Finance Department is not presumed to the exercise of power it: under this rule). It should be understood that under the operations of this rule, work rates for such estimates should be framed so as to exclude all charges for supervision.
       In case of petty works where this provision of 2 per cent be considered inadequate, provision of work-charged establishment may be detailed.
[2. 27—2. 32	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	CHAP-II
2.27 After a Major Estimate has been sanctioned, it may be decided to make a change in the method originally contemplated for the execution of the work In such a case, the original abstract should be recast.
      The details of cost and quantities already approved by competent authority should be rearranged and the revised abstract should be approved by the competent authority and thereafter treated as the sanctioned abstract of the estimate for all account purposes.
2.28 If the number of sub-heads in the working estimate for a work or sub-work is large, it is permissible to break up the estimate into two‘ or more parts, and to treat each part as a sub-work for the purposes of accounts but no part of an estimate can be separated from the rest, if any contract for the execution of work connected with it covers also work connected with the other parts. It is advisable to adopt this course if one or more parts of a work or sub-work are completely executed long in advance of the others and no useful purpose will be served by keeping	open	the	accounts	of	the	completed	parts.
Note—the rules regulating the inclusion in estimates of the approximate cast Establishment and Tools end plants are given in Sub paragraph 2 and 3 of Appendix 5 of West Pakistan Buildings and	Roads	Department	Account	Code.
2.29 The percentage rates for departmental charges carried out for other Government Departments, Local Bodies, etc., would be as prescribed by Government from time to time.
2.30 . Estimates for works on which it is intended to use prison labour will, as in the ease of free labour, provide for the full market value of the work to be done, but a note of the reduction, if any, to be effected thereby should be made at the foot of the abstract of the estimate.
2.31 . In framing estimates it will be necessary, when- ever it has been arranged to obtain stock or tools and plant for a work from another Department or Division, to ascertain from that Department or Division the value of such materials and, if the rules require the transfer to be effected free of charge, to deduct this value at the foot from, the total of the estimate.
11—Original Works.
(a) Civil Buildings
a.32. The site of every public building should be definitely settled before the detailed designs and estimates are pre-
prepared by a Committee consisting of the following -
      (1) Deputy committee a Chairman.,
      (2) Representative of the department concerned.
      (3) District Medical Officer.
      (4) Executive Engineer.
The Executive Engineer will convene the meeting and propose the site.
a.33. In the case of works or buildings which are intended to be erected in the neighborhood of any forb or cantonment the matter should, in the first instance, be referred to the local officer of the Military Engineering Services for an expression, of his opinion from a military point of view, and then submitted to. the Central Government in the Defense Department for concurrence, and when such concurrence has been obtained, no deviation is permissible without previous	reference	to	that	authority.
a.34. The rules regarding zones of Defensive Works will be found in the Regulations for the Military Engineer Services and the Regulations for the Army in Pakistan. Special attention is drawn to the restrictions on the construction of buildings, alteration of ground level and collection of materials in such zones; and to the prohibition of the transfer of state land in zones without the sanction of the Central Government.
a.35. Powder magazines, and all buildings which, from their height or exposed situation, are likely to be struck by lightning, should be provided with lightning conductors according to the specification detailed in the West Pakistan Public ‘.Works Department Specifications. All conductors and their connections with the earth should be inspected and tested periodically by the Buildings and Roads Department officers under the —Rules for Testing Lightning Conductors and Lightning Conductor —Earths” in Government Building as per Appendix III Specification III(Buildings and —Roads), a report of each such ‘inspection beings submitted to the Superintending Engineer.
(b) Roads.
b.32. Projects for roads when submitted for sanction should be accompanied by the following documents: - (i) Report detailing history design; scope, rates, and specifications cost and mode of execution, etc
      (ii) Detailed measurements and abstract of ‘cost.
      (iii) Index map, scale 1” = 1 mile.
      (iv) Plans scale 12” = 1 mile.
Longitudinal and cross or transverse sections, scale horizontal, 440‘ = 1” and vertical 20‘ = 1”.
(v) Detailed drawings of all engineering works such as
bridges, etc., scale 10‘ or 8‘=l” for plan and estimate and 5‘ or 4‘ = 1” for details.
      (vi) Detailed drawings, as per scale given in (v) above of all structures-dwellings or inspection bungalow and quarters for subordinates and gangs.
      (Should it be necessary to submit the\ project to the government of Pakistan, it should be accompanied by documents
i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi) above. It should le either duplicates or copies as they are required for purpose bf record by the Government of Pakistan and will not be returned with the notes on the subject.)
2 37. Estimates for new roads should include the cost of all dwelling and inspection houses intended to be built along it for the accommodation of subordinates and others.
      (2) Estimate for bridges must be accompanied by adequate calculations and the report should show, how the stream has been crossed hither to, why it is proposed to bridge it, the kind and amount of traffic to be accommodated, whether the street has been bridged before, if so a description of it should be given and the cause of its failure if such occurred ,the kind of bridge now proposed, reasons for water way allowed, the height or road way above high flood level and lead way, if any allowed for boats, the nature and size of snags, if any, the drainage of the stream whether fiat or hilly, velocity of current in rain and dry weather, if the stream is liable to sudden flood, if it is used for floating out timber and if so how, nature of bed and banks, if banks are liable to erosion, if stream is navigated and if so by what type of vessel, highest flood level maximum and normal, and the nature of materials available within reasonable distance.
      (3) In addition to the actual bridge plan, the following plan should accompany an estimate for a new bridge-A plan of the stream for one mile above and below the proposed crossing, with connected cross section at very quarter of a mile and oftener if necessary; cross section of stream at the .
[Chap. II	WORKS -PREPARATION OF PROJECTS F	(2.38—2.40
Proposed bridge site showing the general level of country on either bank as well as that of the road approaches the various water level; depth at which, good foundation is available and its nature.
2 .38. It must be regarded as a fundamental rule that without the previous sanction of Government no main artery of communication, such as a trunk road, may be abandoned or allowed to fall out of repairs. All proposals for the removal of bridges or ferries must invariably be submitted for the consideration and orders of Government.
Note-In respect of roads, bridges, etc declared to be of military importance by the Defence Department, all proposals for their removal and abandonment should be referred to the Central Government for orders.
(c) Town water-supply project;
            2.39. (1) For Town Water-Supply Projects, the nature and quantity of the existing supply should be given, and the reasons necessitating an improved supply; the possible sources of an additional supply and the reasons for preferring the scheme submitted; the area and number of people and approximate number of animals, if possible, to be supplied, as well as the estimated daily allowance in gallons for each person or animal, etc., the quality of the water, whether requiring filtration or not.
      (2) The report should be accompanied by an index map showing the lines of main and distributary piping, and plans of all works, including filters, service reservoirs, settling tanks, etc. If pumping is contemplated, the annual cost of working the pumps should be estimated; the mode of calculating dimensions of pipes, etc., and the formula used should form one of the appendices.
(d) Open capital account expenditure.
       2.40. It is necessary to make provision for expenditure debatable to capital after the closing of the construction estimate of a project. The following rules govern the subject:-
(i) No expenditure may be incurred except under competent authority and within the budget provision
(ii)	Works	which	it may be	necessary to	construct	after
the closing of the construction estimate of the project will be divided into two classes
       (1) Works which are necessary for the full development of the project, but which are not in them selves directly remunerative.
(2.40	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[Chap. II
      (Examples—Drainage cuts, protective embankments, over bridges, inspection houses, retaining walls, bird guards, roads and guard wires, etc)
      (2) Works which are directly remunerative in them- selves
      (Examples—Ferries and toll bridges, etc.)
      (iii) The Audit Officer will be responsible that no expenditure is incurred after the date of the closure of the construction estimate without the approval of competent authority when the amount of the sanctioned project has been exceeded, and that all expenditure incurred against the open capital account is covered by proper detailed estimates sanctioned by competent authority.
(iv) The 30th June will invariably be fixed as the date for the completion of a work sanctioned against the Open Capital Account and the sanction to the work, unless extend will lapse on that date.
(v) Every Endeavour should be made to complete a work within the period prescribed for its completion. By &completion is meant absolute completion so that no further expenditure remains to be recorded.
      The Accountant shall be responsible that the date fixed for completion of the work is entered in red ink at the top of the folio set apart for ,the, work in the resister of works. He should bring to the notice of the Divisional Officer, three months before the date fixed for their completion, or at an earlier date, when the accounts show that the progress of a work is very slow, all open capital work in progress, with a view to instructions being issued to Sub- Divisional or other officers concerned to ensure not only the completion of the works, but the discharge of all liabilities before the currency of the sanction expires. In the case of payments of condensation for land taken up, the Accountant should frequently remind the Divisional Officer to address the Civil Officers concerned, urging the necessity for payments being made during the currency of the sanction. The responsibility for taking action will rest with the Divisional Officers, but Accountants will assist them in this respect by reminding., sufficiently early of the necessity for prompt action in each case.
(vi) When, however, it is evident that a work cannot be completed within the period assigned, the necessary application.
Chap. II	WORKS —PREPARATION OP PROJECTS	2.41
application for postponing the date of completion should invariably be made before the expiry of the current sanction, and should be accompanied by a full explanation of the causes\which have delayed the completion of the work. On the 2nd April, each Divisional Officer. should submit to the Superintending Engineer a statement showing the names and state of all estimates, the date for the completion of which has been fixed for the 30th June next, with re mark stating whether the works will be completed by the prescribed date or not and with such explanations as may be necessary to enable that, officer to sanction the extension of such date, if necessary.
(vii) Completion reports on works completed by the 20th June should be submitted as soon as after that date as possible so that they shall reach the Chief Engineer, West Pakistan after verification by ‘the Director Audit and Accounts (Works), West Pakistan by the 1st October following at least.
Note—(1) It has been decided by the West Pakistan Government that with effect from the Financial Year 1039-60 the expenditure on all new Major Work costing up to Rs. One lace would be debited to Revenue under the head 50-Civil Works‘, and those costing more than the said limit would be debatable to the Capital head “81-Capital Account of Civil Works outside the Revenue Account”.
Authority-.Joint Secretary to Government of West Pakistan, Finance Department letter No. 803- B.VII-59, dated 6th July 195.
Note (2)It has also been decided that the Suspense transactions of the Buildings and Roads Department should be booked under the Major Head “8I-Capital Account of Civil Works outside the Revenue Account” Instead of the Major Head 50-Civil Works excluding Establishment Charges” with effect from the same year.
(Authority —Deputy Secretary (Budget) to Government of Woes Pakistan Finance Department letter No. 54-B-VII-58, dated 13th November.
111—Repairs.
(a) General
2-41. Repairs, are ordinarily of three kinds:-
(i) Those which as a matter of routine are carried out every year and which are usually of the same quantity from time to time, such as the whitewashing of a building or surface painting of a road or painting of water pipes or tanks. These are known as annual Maintenance and Repair.
(ii) Those which are not done every year but are due after 4 years and are known as Quadrennial
2.42-2.45	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	Chap. II
      repairs this includes such items as painting of doors, windows and wood work in roof.
 (iii) Such occasional special repairs as become necessary from time to time, and which may have to be carried out between times of periodical repairs like renewal of roof, renewal of goor, etc.
      2.42. Except in the cases contemplated in paragraph 2.54 provision for repairs of the first two kinds should be made in annual estimates including quadrennial repairs which should be included in every forth year‘s annual estimate, and for the third kind in separate estimates, as occasions may require, but provision for all should be made in the budget, so far as they can be foreseen, and a reserve should also be provided in the budget to meet unforeseen expenditure on repairs, since the powers of Superintending Engineers to sanction repairs are limited to the budget grants at their disposal.
      243. A separate estimate should be prepared for the maintenance of each work, or of each class of building in each district or of a portion of a work or group of works as detailed in the Budget. Attention to this point is necessary, for in the principal accounts, the total outlay against each estimate being alone posted, it is only by recording the outlay year after year on the maintenance of each particular set of buildings or work that useful comparisons can be made.
      2.44. June is to be considered as the last month of the working year for the purpose of annual maintenance estimates, each annual repair estimate should include the whole expenditure which it is anticipated will be incurred during the working year on the maintenance of the work concerned.
      2.45. Repairs estimates should, like those for original works, provide for the removal of all rubbish which may have accumulated, filling in unsightly pits, etc., round the buildings, all works establishment employed specially on the work, and under separate sub-heads, all watchmen sanctioned by competent authority for the care of vacant buildings, guarding work, etc.
      In estimates for repairs no provision is needed f or general and administrative charges or for Tools and Plant.
Chpa_11	WORKS -PREPARATION OF PROJECTS	2.46.2.51
246. The sanction to an annual repair estimate lapses on the last day of the working year,-vide paragraph 2.44.
      Note —See Paragraph 5.7 (iii)
2. 47. Estimates for special repairs remain current till ‘completion of the repairs in the same manner as estimates for original works.
2.48. In cases of urgency, the Superintending Engineer may authorize the commencement of special repairs in anticipation of the formal sanction to the detailed estimate, but in such cases a preliminary rough estimate should be sanctified by him. Such sanction will not, however, be operative unless funds for the repairs are properly appropriated by competent authority. The Divisional Officer will be responsible that a proper detailed estimate is submitted at the earliest possible date and then the estimate sanctioned by the competent authority within one month, at the latest.
      For action to be taken in cases of extreme urgency see paragraph 2.82.
2.49. In the case of all descriptions of works, for the renewal of which any specific period of time has been fixed, the estimate for its repair should show the date when such item of work was last executed.
(ii) Special rules,
2.50. To facilitate the preparation of estimates for annual and Quadrennial repairs a standard measurement book should be kept in the office of each Divisional Officer, showing the detailed measurements of each kind f work which is usually subject to renewal in each work under his charge.
2.51. Annual and periodical repairs to buildings should be provided for as a percentage on the capital cost, of the building on which the standard rent is based, which will be held to include provision for all ordinary repairs likely to be needed every year.
      (2) Special repairs should be provided for by special estimates prepared when necessary.
      (3) Annual repairs should be provided for at the rates mentioned below: -
3.52- 2.54	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[CHAP. II
When acquired or constructed through the agency of the Buildings and roads Department-
Class of buildingsDescriptionAssessable percentage on the capital cost of the buildings escalading value of siteaThose in good order built by the public works department in a semi permanent style i.e with pucca foundations kutach pucca put side walls lime pointed pucca parapets and chimeyes terraced jack arch or wooden karri proof over steel girdersSpecial repairs	ordinary repairs
1 to 3bThose of similar style of construction but not in good condtion either built by the public works Department	or purchase
from private individuals and added to or altered after purchase3 to 5cTemporary buildings i.e those with walls of mud masonry with thatched or tilled roof5 to 7
       A charge of 4^ per cent of the capital cost will be made in addition to the above to cover the maintenance of water- supply, sanitary and electric installations, where such exist.
       Note—With reference to the minimum and maximum rates fixed above for annual ordinary repairs, Superintending Engineers of the Buildings and Roads Department should arrange to communicate to the Director Audit and Accounts (work such per. e outages as are actually applied in fixing the standard rent in Mach individual case, so that the rents fixed may be susceptible of scrutiny.
       2.52. The estimate when prepares will be submitted to the officer occupying such building, for countersignature in token of all repairs known to be required having been provided for. In the case of buildings occupied by officers of the Civil Department, occasional repairs not provided for in the annual estimate will be executed on requisitions sanctioned under paragraph 2.20.
       2.53. Where municipal or other taxes on public buildings are payable by Government, provision for such	taxes should	be made in the annual	repair estimate.
       2.54. In the case of any building, the cost of the ordinary annual repairs (excluding municipal taxes) to which is Tess than Rs. 2,500, the Superintending Engineer may pres /
WORKS—CONTRACTS AND WORK 2.55-2.56 ORDERS
Prescribe, subject to revision from time to time, a lump sum limited to Rs. 2,500 (plus the amount of the municipal taxes if any, payable by Government under paragraph 3.15 of this Code) to cover the cost of maintenance, and within this amount expenditure will be permissible without any detailed estimate being prepared. Such lump sum should be framed after consideration of the cost of maintenance in the past and, in the case of residential buildings, should further be limited to the amount included for this purpose in the rent assessment. If in any working year the estimated cost of maintenance is more than the permissible limit given above, or if the lump sum sanctioned by the Superintending Engineer is exceeded a detailed estimate must be prepared in accordance with the ordinary rules and sanctioned by competent authority. On sanction being accorded to such am estimate the sanction of the Superintending Engineer to the lump sum provision will automatically be superseded for the working year in question.
      Note- The sanction accorded to the lump um provision referred to in this paragraph shell be held to be a sanction to an estimate for the same amount for all purposes of this code.
       (2) Every annual repair estimate which is intended to. provide for all repairs which must be carried out yearly, such as whitewashing, renewing mud roofs, etc., as also lot periodical and petty (including quadrennial and occasional). repairs, i.e.., repairs that are necessary from tithe to time to keep the building or road up to a proper state of presentation, should be scrutinsed and passed by the Superintending Engineer and stereotyped. Having once been stereotyped, am annual repair estimate should not be submitted to the Superintending Engineer with application for funds.
2.55. In the case of alterations to a building when the cost is partly debatable to original works and partly to repairs. j in accordance with paragraph 22 of this Code, only one estimate should be prepared with an abstract showing separately the amounts debatable to original works and repairs which should be accounted for wider each head as incurred.
E—CONTRACTS AND Won ORDERS
I-General.
2.56. The recognized system of carrying out work, otherwise than by the employment of daily labour, are —Piece work”
2.57. 2-58	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	Chap-11
and —Contract work”. For explanation of the term —Piece work” see paragraph 2.67 following.
The term —Contract’, as used in this Code, does not include agreements for the execution of work by piece work (see paragraph 2.67) nor does it include mere ordinary purchases of materials or stores . All other work, done under agreement, is termed —Contract work”, and in the agreements for such work, which should invariably be in writing, there should generally be a stipulation as to the quantity of work to be done and the time within which it is to be completed
2.58. —Contracts” may be of three kinds, viz, lump sum, scheduled and a combination of these two.
      In a lump sum contract the contractor engages to execute the work with all its contingencies for a fixed sum.
Scheduled contracts are those in which the ‘undertakes to execute the work at fixed rates, the to receive depending on the quantities and kind of or material supplied.
      Percentage rate contracts are those in which the con- tractor undertakes to execute the work at a fixed percentage above or below the rates exhibited, the sum he is to receive depending on the quantities and kind of work done or material supplied.
      The third kind of contract is a combination of both these. Thus a fixed sum is proposed for the completion of the work as specified and a schedule of rate is agreed upon by which to regulate the price to be paid or to be deducted for additions or alterations.
11—CONTRACT DOCUMENT.
2.59. Before a work is given out on contract, the Divisional Officer must prepare —contract documents” to include:-
1st—A complete set of drawings showing the general
dimensions of the proposed work, and so far as
necessary, detail of the various parts.
2nd—A complete specification of the work to be done and of the materials to be used, unless reference can be made to some standard specification.
3rd—A schedule of the quantities of the various descriptions of work.
4th-A set of —conditions of contract —to be complied with by the person whose tender may be accepted.
WORKS -CONTRACTS AND WORK 2.59-2.61 ORDERS
      2.60. If the amount of the tender is likely to be beyond the Divisional Officer‘s power of acceptance, or to be of an unusual character, he should before publicly inviting tenders, submit the contract documents to the Superintending Engineer for his approval or remarks together with a copy of the proposed advertisement for tenders, and the form in which tenders are to be submitted. Should the tender be of a‘ very special nature, or the amount of it is likely to exceed, the Superintending Engineer‘s power of acceptance, that officer should, in like manner, submit the contract documents to the Regional Officer for approval and advice, who will in turn refer the	matter	to	the	Chief	Engineer	if	necessary
      2.61. In works of great magnitude‘ the contract deed should be specially prepared by the Government Law Officers, but for ordinary contracts, usual stereotyped forms will generally suffice-
      2.62. (1) In giving out works on contracts, tenders, which should always be sealed, should invariably be invited in the most open and public manner possible, whether by advertisement in the Government Gazette or local newspapers, or by notice in English and the vernacular posted in public places, after the estimate has been technically sanctioned and the contract documents have been approved by an authority not lower than that empowered to accept the tender. The tenders should have free access to the contract documents. The notice should in all cases state -
1st - The place where and the time when the contract documents can be seen, and the blank forms of tender obtained, also the amount, if any, to be paid for such forms of tender -
      2nd-	The place where, the date and, the, time when tenders are to be submitted and are
to be opened. The limit of notice after let advertisement should be (a) works costing more than Rs.50,000 one month‘s notice (b) 15 days notice in case of works costing Rs. 20,0000 and over up to Rs.50,0000 (c) 10 days notice for all other works . But if urgency of work does not permit of the full time Superintending Engineer‘s approval to reduction of notice of notice be taken
3rd-	The amount of earnest money to accompany the tender, and the amount and
nature of the security deposit required in the case of the accepted tender.
4th	With whom, or what authority, the acceptance of the tender will rest.
      (2) Authority should always be reserved to reject any or all of the tenders received without the assignment of a reason, and this should be expressly stated in the advertisement.
      (3) 2 At the advertised time and place, all tenders received for the same contract should be opened by the Divisional Officer or other officer in person, in the presence of such of the intending contractors or their agents as may choose to attend. The Divisional Head Clerk and Divisional Accountant should also be present when tenders are being opened. No tender should be accepted from any person directly or indirectly connected with the public service. Such a declaration should be obtained from the tenders before opening the tenders. This ruling does not apply to Government pensioners, see paragraph 1.148.
      (4) A wooden box locked or pad locked should be kept in Divisional Offices for receiving tenders. The key of the box should remain in possession of the officer who opens the tenders. The box should be opened in his office as above and not at his residence.
2) 63. _No tender for the execution of works of any description should be received unless accompanied by a treasury challan for the deposit of cash as earnest money, to the extent which has been notified as necessary by the officer inviting tenders.
3) 64. The amount of earnest money to be deposited should be sufficiently large to be a security against loss in case of the contractor failing to start work within the appointed time after the acceptance of his tender, or until the sums due to him from a sufficient guarantee, as the case May be
Note (1)-Earnest money deposits made by contractors of the Buildings and Roads Department are creditable to civil deposits Revenue Deposits see deposit may be made by contractors at Sub divisional or District treasuries. No previous authority of a departmental officer is necessary but the depositor must state the designation of the officer in whose favour he makes the deposit and that designation must be stated on the receipt given by the treasury.
Nete (2) -	As an exception to this rule Government may authorize Divisional officer not to
pass through the Cash Book earnest money received from and returned to contractors on the same day the tenders are opened provided that the constrictors concerned are required to give a stamped receipt for the money in the Register to tenders maintained in the Divisional office and that the register is to that extent treated as a subsidiary cash book and consequently as an accounts form
WORKS-CONTRACTS AND WORKS
ORDERS
4) 65. Usually the lowest tender should be accepted, un- less there be some objection to the capability of the contractors, the security offered by him, or his execution of former work. Subject to the provision of clauses 3 to 4 the acceptance or rejection of tenders is left entirely to the discretion of the officer to whom the duty is entrusted, and no explanation can be demanded of the cause of the rejection of his offer by any person making a tender. Such an explanation may be	called	for	by	superior	authority,	if considered	necessary.
5) )	In cases where a tender other than the lowest tender‘ is selected for acceptance, reasons
should be recorded confidentially in the tender register.
6) )	Sub-Divisional and Divisional Officer will, in addition to taking action under clause
(2) above, inform their in- mediate superior whenever they accept a tendered rate for use in work orders other than the lowest tender; and the superior officer may, at his discretion, take action to accept the lowest rate tendered.
7) ) When the tender system is used in connection with, a contract (as opposed to its use in deciding work order rates), a tender other than the lowest may only be accepted after obtaining the approval of the officer immediately superior r the one who normally under the rules would be competent to accept the tender.
I V—Security for performance of contracts.
2.66. Security should in all cases be taken for the due‘ fulfillment of a contract. This security may be: -
(a) The earnest money deposited under paragraph
(b) A deduction of 10 per cent from the monthly payments to be made on account of work done.
V—Provision in contract for imported stores.
1.1. In framing. Contract of any description, care should be taken to retain in the hands of Government the supply of imported materials, if required to any considerable extent, and to arrange the terms accordingly. Such stores should either be supplied from the existing Government stock or be obtained in the ordinary course as per rules of store purchasing office of West Pakistan Government.
“VI- Enforcement of terms of contract.
2.68. Engineers and their subordinates are responsible that the terms of contracts are strictly enforced, and that no act is done tending to nullify or vitiate a contract. All con- tract deeds must be executed on one or other of the standard forms, but they may be modified to suit local requirements after consultation with the legal advisers of the West Pakistan Government. All agreements or security bonds entered into with the Buildings and Roads Department by contractors for the execution of work or for securing the due performance of contracts are exempt from stamp duty. Registration fees on all contracts for manufacture and supply of bricks must be paid by the contractor as he is required to register the tender.
      (2 When according to the terms of the contract, a Super- intending Engineer acts as an arbitrator, he should, in giving an award, keep in view the instructions contained in Appendix VI.
VII—Officers Empowered to Execute Contracts.
      2.69. No authority lower than an officer in charge of a Division can accept any tender or make a contract for public works. The different classes of deeds, contracts and other instruments which may be executed by this Department and the authorities empowered to execute them are detailed in Appendix I, while the financial limits up to which the authorities are authorized to determine the terms of deeds, are set-forth in Annexure B of this chapter.
      2.70. It is not the intention to prevent the officers empowered in this respect from giving out to different contractor‘s t number of contracts relating to one work, even though such work may be estimated to cost more than the amount up to which they are empowered to accept tenders. But no individual contractor may receive a contract amounting to more than this sum nor, if he received one contract, may he receive a. second in connection with the same work or estimate while the first is still in force, if the sum of the contracts exceeds the power of acceptance	of‘	the	authority	concerned.
      Note—It should be clearly understood that the splitting up of a work at the time of ceiling for tenders is a measure which must be justified by circumstances; ad must be in the Interests of the work. It must not be resorted to with view to ending the operation of any proscribed limit.
      2.71. In case in which departures from the rules contained in this section of this Chapter are unavoidable, such departures may be permitted or condoned, as the case may be
[Chap. II	WORKS CONTRACTS AND WORK ORDERS	2.72
      Subject to the following restrictions; and with the concurrence of the finance Department in each case: -
      (i) No officer may enter into a contract which he is not empowered to enter.
      (ii) No officer may enter into a contract which infringes the rule in paragraph 210.
(iii) No officer may accept any contract for a work until an assurance has been received from the authority competent to provide funds for the same, that such funds will be allotted before the liability matures (ride paragraph 2-82 (1)).
(iv) The provision of paragraph 2-67 may not be waived where the purchase of imported materials contravenes the provisions of the, Store Rules.
Note—Restrictions I and II above do not apply to piece work agreements which are not contracts within the meaning of this code -vide paragraph 2.58.
VIII- Piece Work.
272 (1) Works are commonly carried out at —piece work” the agreements for which should be in the form of —work orders” on Stereo Buildings and Roads Form No. 34. Such agreements are not —contracts” and should contain only a description of the work to be done and the rate to be paid for it, without any reference to the total quantity to be executed or to the time within which it is to‘ be executed. The Government or the contractor may at any time terminate such agreement by notice in writing without claim to	compensation	by	the	other	party‘.
      A specification of the work to be done may be issued with the work order, but must contain no reference to quantity or time.
(2) In the Buildings and Roads Department work orders are used for all works and repairs estimated to cost not more than Its 10,000 up to which limit the Divisional Officers are competent to issue work order. The Sub-Divisional officer may issue work orders for works and repairs estimated to cost not more than Rs. 4,000
(3) Work order shall be issued after calling quotations in a public manner for which notices as under should be given:-
(i) For work upto Rs. 5,000 at least 7 days notice.
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE [Chap.
(ii) For work from 5,000 to 10,000 at least 2 weeks notice.
(4) Quotation is to be submitted in a sealed cover and shall be entered in the quotation register and opened in the presence of the contractors. The Divisional Head Clerk and Divisional Accountant should also be present when quotations are being opened in the Divisional Office.
(5) The work shall be given to lowest quotationer always and in case where work is to be allotted to any one other than the lowest quotationer permission from S. E. shall be taken after stating reasons for the same and this must be made available to audit.
F—SALE AND ACQUISITION OF LAND
I—Sale of Government Land and Immovable Property.
2.73. All land, the property of Government, should ordinarily be sold through the Revenue Department. But when Buildings are sold, the sites attached to them should be sold by the Buildings and Roads Department.
      2.74. When any immovable public property is made over to a local authority for public, religious, educational or any other purpose, the grant should be made expressly on the conditions, in addition to. any others that may be settled, that the property shall be liable to be resumed by Government if used for other than the specific purposes for which it is granted and that, should the property be at any time resumed by Government, the compensation payable therefore shall in no case exceed the amount (if any) paid to Government for the grant, together with the cost or their present value, whichever may be less, of any buildings erected or other work executed on the land by the local authority.
II-Acquisition of land
(a) General
2.75. When land is required for public purposes, the officer of the Buildings and ‘Roads Department should, in the first instance, consult the Collector of the district, and obtain from him the fullest possible information as to the probable cost of the land, per acre or otherwise, together with the value of buildings, etc, situated on the property, for which compensation will have to be paid. Upon the information thus obtained an estimate should be framed by the buildings and
WORKS -SALE AND ACQUISITION OF LAND	[2.76
OF‘ LARD
Roads Department Officer and submitted for sanction, either separately or duly incorporated in the estimate of work for which land is required.
2.76. where, however, the following conditions are fulfilled, consultation with the Collector of the district may be dispensed with and the cost of land may for estimating purposes be based on the Divisional Officer‘s experience and local enquiry
(i) that the amount of the sub-head for land does not exceed Rs. 5,000 and
(ii) that the amount of: the sub-head for land does not exceed 5 per cent of the total amount of the estimate (works only)
      Note—No religious place of worship, shrine tomb graveyard or any in movable property attached to any such Institution and the boundaries of which care continuous with the site of the same, shall be acquired compulsorily under the Land acquisition Act if any other immovable property attached to any such institution or any such property be required, the matter should be referred to the West Pakistan government before any action Is taken in the matter.
       2.76. When sanction to an estimate, framed as above directed, has been obtained, the Divisional Officer or other Buildings and Roads Department Officer concerned should commit the matter to the Revenue Officer who will take the necessary preliminary action for the appropriation of the land under the Land Acquisition Act; or for its acquisition by private negotiation, subject to the instructions of the. Board of Revenue as contained in Financial Commissioner‘s Standing Order No, 28 (Land Acquisition). These instructions provide that if the estimate originally framed and sanctioned is likely when the land comes to be acquired, to be materially exceeded, the Land Acquisition Officer making the ,award should give sufficient notice to the Buildings and Roads Department Officers ;and should take into consideration any representation which such officer may make, whether it is made orally or by letter. More especially he should, before making the award, allow such an officer an opportunity of producing in person or by agent and of producing evidence as to the value of the land. When such a reference is made, the Buildings and. Roads department Officer should, if it is found it possible to obtain the land required without materially exceeding the estimate, or to obtain some other plot of land in lieu of that originally proposed, submit a revised estimate for sanction. When possession has once been taken under Section 16 or 17 of the
[2.77-2.80	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[Chap. II
Act, Government cannot withdraw from the acquisition of the land. In cases; therefore, where the amount claimed in pursuance of a notice under the Act is largely in excess of the amount subsequently awarded by the Collector, and the acquisition of the land is not absolutely necessary, possession should not be taken ‘Without a reference to the authority sanctioning the work until he Lime within which an application for a reference to the Court must be made under Section 18 of the Act has a lapsed without suck application being made.
2.77. The arrangements between the officers of the department and the Land Acquisition Officer to determine what land to take up, should, where practicable, be made without divulging the intention of the Government, so as to admit of a private bargain being, if possible, made before	any	enhancement	of	prices	has	occurred.
2.78. After the preliminary arrangements describe in the preceding paragraphs have been dull carried out, the land ‘will be taken up under the Act either by the Collector or by a special officer placed at the disposal of the Buildings and Roads Department and invested with the powers of a Collector under the Land Acquisition Act. The procedure in the two cases which is applicable in the case of land taken up for Military Works is described in Annexure ‘C” of this Chapter.
2.79. The procedure described in paragraphs 2.73 to 2.78 does Pot apply to cases where the land required is already in possession of another Department of Government or of a local body such cases are governed by special provisions in Financial Commissioners‘ Standing Order No. 28 (Land Acquisition).
(b) Land held for Military purposes.
      280: No land, whether:-
      (a) within cantonment limits,
      (b) forming part of an encamping ground, or
      (c) otherwise held for military purposes,
Should be taken up or occupied for, any purposes whatever either by contractors or any other persons (official or non- official) acting under the orders of any Civil Department until the sanction of the Central Government in the Defence Department to the occupation or use of the land has first been obtained

      and communicated to the. General Officer Commanding the Division or the Independent Brigade, In all such cases, the necessary sanction should be obtained by the General Officer Commanding the Division or the Independent Brigade, through the Quarter-master-General in Pakistan.
      (2) Application for suck land when within cantonment limits should be made by the officer Incharge of the works to ‘the cantonment authority, and by the later to the superior military authority but in the case of a military encamping ground, application should be made to the general officer Commanding the Division or the independent Brigade. The military authorities will then take the necessary steps to obtain (i)the opinion of the West Pakistan Government (i.e., the administrative Department in consultation with the Finance Department), which should invariably be recorded upon all applications, and (ii)the sanction of the Central Government to the occupation of the required land. The foregoing procedure will apply in cases where it is proposed to purchase, or otherwise acquire permanently, any building situated on military	land	for	the	use	of	a	Civil	Department.
(c). Acquisition of land by private negotiation.
      2.81. In the case of land acquired by private negotiation, the land Acquisition Officer who settles the price, etc., should draw up Form A prescribed for use in the case of an award, and this should be made the basis of subsequent payments and audit (Annexure C to this Chapter).
EXECUTION OF WORKS.
I-Commencement of works
      282. It is a fundamental rule that no work shall be commenced unless Administrative Approval by competent authority is given, and properly detailed design and estimate have been sanctioned, allotment of funds made and orders for its commencement issued by competent authority . Permission granted by Government: orders on a Budget estimate for the retention of an entry of proposed expenditure during the year on work conveys no authority for the commencement of outlay. Such permission is granted on the implied understanding that, before any expenditure is incurred, the above conditions will have been fulfilled. Excepting in regard of petty works,	as	defined	in	paragraph	2.18	repairs	of the
2.83-2.84	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[Chap. II
Nature contemplated. in paragraphs 2.20 and 2.54 and in case‘ of real emergency which must be immediately reported and explained to the authorities competent to accord administrative ‘approval and technical sanction, and their approval obtained immediately afterwards, this injunction may no be infringed. On the other hand, the sanction of a design and estimate by Government or any other authority conveys no permission for the Commencement of expenditure on the work, unless such expenditure has been provided for in the budget estimate of the year, or provision has been made for the outlay within the official year either by re appropriation or out of some lump sum grant allotted for the head of classification under which the service falls. Similarly no liability may be incurred in connection with any work until an assurance has been received from the authority competent to provide funds that such funds will be	allotted	before	the	liability	matures.
(2) If in any case, whether on grounds of urgency or otherwise, a Divisional Officer is requited to carry out a work for which no estimates have been sanctioned or for which no financial provision exists (whether estimates have been sanctioned or not) the orders of the officer authorizing the, work should be conveyed in writing. On receipt of such written orders the officer who is directed to carry out the work should immediately intimate to the audit officer concerned that he it incurring a liability for which there is no provision or inadequate provision of funds and should, at the same time, state‘ approximately the amount of the liability which it is likely he will incur by compliance with the written orders which he has received. The audit officer will then be responsible for bringing the facts instantly to the notice of higher financial authority, with a view to necessary steps being taken either to stop the progress of the work or to regularize its execution. There should be no hesitation in enforcing disciplinary action against any officer, administrative or executive, who may fail or delay to comply with these orders.
      283. Verbal orders for the commencement of work are to be depreciated as being liable to misapprehension, but in cases where such orders are given they should ordinarily be confirmed in writing as soon as possible thereafter.
2.84. When any new building is about to be commenced, or any alteration, addition or repairs executed it any buildings due intimation of such intention must be given to the local head of the department, military or civil, concerned.

2.85. No work should be commenced on land which has not been duly made over by the responsible civil officers.
II SCOPE OR SANCTION
2.86. The authority granted by a sanction to an estimate must on all occasions be looked upon as strictly limited by the precise objects for which the estimate was intended to provide Accordingly, any anticipated or actual savings on a sanctioned • estimate for a definite project should not, without special authority be applied to carry out additional work not contemplated in the original project or fairly contingent on its actual execution.
      (2) Savings due to the abandonment of a substantial section of any project sanctioned by an authority not lower than the Chief Engineer are not to be considered as available for work on other sections.
Note (1)—The —special authority” mentioned in sub-paragraph (i) is the authority competent to give administrative approval to the original estimate on which the saving occurs
Note (2)—For the purpose of this ruling, substantial section of a project shall - - be considered to have been abandoned, if the estimated cost of the works in such section is gotten than 5 percent of the total sanctioned cost of the project.
III—LAPSE OF SANCTION.
2.87. The sanction to an estimate for a public work (as distinct from annual repairs) will ordinarily cease to operate after a period of five - years from the date upon which it was accorded, but the acceptance by - competent authority of a budget estimate which includes specific provision for expenditure upon a work which is in progress may be regarded as reviving the sanction to the estimate for the year in which the provision is made. But see- also paragraph 2.46.
IV -ALTERATIONS IN DESIGN DURING CONSTRUCTION
2.88. No material alteration in sanctioned, still less in Standard designs may be made by a Divisional Officer in carrying out any work, without the approval of the Superintending Engineer. If the design was originally prepared by the Consulting Architect a reference should be made to him y‘ the first instance should any alteration of importance involving additional expense be considered necessary, a revised or supplementary estimate (see paragraphs 2.104 to 2.108 ) - should be submitted for sanction. In urgent cases, where the delay thug caused would be inconvenient, an immediate report
2.89-2.94	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	CHAP-II of the circumstances must be made to superior authority, and dealt with as the case may require.
Note—revised s administrative approval is necessary in the cases indicated in paragraph 2.7.
 (2) In the ease of works chargeable to central Revenues the rules made bye Central Government must be followed.
2.89. Where important structural alterations are contemplated, though not necessarily involving an increased outlay, the orders of the original sanctioning authority should be obtained. A revised estimate should be submitted for technical sanction, should the alternations involve any substantial change in the cost of the work.
V—MISCELLANEOUS RULES FOR THE EXECUTIVE OF WORK
2.90. In the execution of works, every case should be taken that the safety and the convenience of the public are duly attended to, and that all operations are carried on in such a manner as to interfere as little as possible nth the traffic or ordinary pursuits of the people. Temporary roads and bridges should, when necessary, be provided and particular attention should be paid to the adequate lighting at night of all obstructions to public roads, and rights of way. The occupation of land should, when practicable, be so timed as not to lead to the destruction of standing crops. Brick and lime k s should not be erected so close to the inhabited part of any town or cantonment as to be a nuisance.
2.91. No religious edifice should be destroyed or injured in the execution of works without the full and free consent of the persons interested in it, nor without the concurrence of the principal civil or political authority on the spot, unless under the orders of the Government within whose jurisdiction the edifice stand-see also paragraph 3.14.
2.92. All interruptions of large works in progress should be immediately reported to the Superintending Engineer the causes and probable duration of such interruptions being duly explained.
2.93. All unusual losses in the manufacture of materials - - must, on their occurrence be reported to the Superintending Engineer.
2.94. Divisional Officers should promptly report (vide paragraph 1.64) to the Chief Engineer, the Regional Officer
[Chap. II	Works-Execution of works 2.95-2.98)
and also, to the Superintending Engineer, the occurrence of all serious and important accidents or damage -to any roads or buildings borne on the books of the Department. Divisional Officers and other subordinates in charge of the works should furnish immediate information to the officer lit charge of the nearest police station on the occasion of every serious accident, and in the case of death on the spot, they should not allow the body to be removed till an enquiry ha been held.
2.95. Carriage of any. description, employed for purposes connected with public works, is as liable to be impressed for military purposes as carriage employed by private individuals.
2.95. The Superintending Engineer may, if he deems it necessary, direct the Divisional Officer to suspend the commencement or progress of any work pending the orders of Government.
2.96 An order book should be opened and kept on all major works in which all important orders to , the executive subordinate or to the contractor should be written.
(2) Diaries of progress should also be maintained under the orders of the Divisional Officer. The regular and the thorough maintenance of records in order books and diaries is essential. They are invaluable in deciding claims made by contractors, butt they must be complete. Dates of arrival of stores be supplied by Government should particularly be note as claims on account, of delay by contractors are frequently based on late supply of stores by Government.
VI -ADVANCE TO CONTRACTORS.
      2.98	. Advances to contractors are prohibited except in the following cases; -
(a) Cases m which a contractor, whose contract for finished work, requires on advance on the security of materials brought to site Divisional Officers may, in such cases, sanction advances up to an amount not exceeding 75 per cent of the value (as assessed by themselves) of such materials, provided that they are of an imperishable nature and‘ that a formal agreement is drawn up with‘ the contractor under which Government secures a lien on the materials and‘ is safeguarded against losses due - to the contractor postponing the execution of‘ the if work or to the shortage or misuse of the materials.
and against the expense entailed for their proper watch and safe custody payment of such advances should be made only on the certificate of an officer, not below the rank of Sub- Divisional Officer, that the quantities of materials upon which the advances are made have actually been brought to site, that the contractor has not previously received any advance on that security and that the materials are all required by the contractor for use on items of work for which ‘rate for finished work have been agreed upon. The officer granting such a certificate will be held personally responsible for any overpayment which may occur in consequence. Recoveries of advances so made should not be postponed until the whole of the work entrusted to the contractor is completed. They should be made from his bills for work done as the materials are used, the necessary deductions being made whenever items of work in which they are used are billed for.
(b)	An advance payment for work actually executed may be made on the certificate of a
responsible officer (not below the rank of sub-Divisional Officer) to the effect that not less than the quantity of work paid for Las actually been done, and the officer granting such certificate will be held personally responsible for any over payment Which may occur on the work in consequences. Final payments, may, however, in no case be made with	out	detailed	measurement.
VII-SANITATION ON EXTENSIVE WORKS. -
2.99. On extensive works, where large labour force is collected, the importance of good butting, water supply, and sanitary arrangements must be borne in mind, and all reasonable precautions must be taken to maintain the health of the labour force and prevent or arrest the progress of epidemics.
      (2) The general principles which should be observed are stated in Appendix -IV, and it will be the duty of the Superintending Engineer to see that these rules are observed.
      (3) Any reasonable outlay for such temporary cover as may be needed for bodies of work-people of considerable

magnitude, for the making out, clearing and draining •of their temporary stations, also for entertaining some small temporary establishment to look after the latrines, one or two policemen, and hospital establishments may be authorized as forming part of the contingent outlay on the work under execution, but in framing large projects, for which the pro- vision of such works can be foreseen, such expenditure should, as far as possible, be specifically provided for in the project estimate.
VIII- INFORMATION TO BE GIVEN TO TUE SURVEY DEPARTMENT
      2.100. With a view to the Survey Department being supplied with information regarding all new public works to enable the map of West Pakistan to be brought up to date, the following procedure is to be followed in regard to new branch or main lines of roads, bridges, boat bridges,, large public works, town water-supply or drainage projects:-
      (I) When any such public work has been constructed, or section thereof has been opened, the index or record map, on whatever scale available (not less than one inch-one mile), provided it is from original survey and not a mere eye sketch made on tracings from the Survey of Pakistan maps, should be sent to the Survey of Pakistan Office, Murree and that Department will take steps to have the material utilized by its own draftsmen. Index plans of main and branch lines of road, bridges, and boat bridges should be sent to Government in the Irrigation Communications and Works Department for transmission to the Survey Department.
      (II) To ensure the material supplied being suitable for the purposes of the Survey Department, the topography adjoining the alignment,, such as village sites, trijunction boundary pillars, other permanent objects and the crossing of roads and streams, should be accurately shown, and it should be stated on the maps supplied if the information is derived from actual - survey or otherwise.
      (III) The Survey Department should be requested to treat index or record maps with every care, and to return them as early as possible to offices from which they have been received so that the labour of making tracings need not be resorted to.
2.101-2.103	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	Chap. III
(IV) It Is the duty of the Divisional Officer to see that this report is sent to the Survey Department within 3 months of completion of f works.
      IX-EXECUTION OF WORKS BY CIVIL OFFICERS.
2.101. Save in cases where the Governor may assign the construction and maintenance of buildings to the departments using or requiring them, the execution of all the works of construction or repairs required for government departments should be entrusted to the Buildings and Roads Department.
H—DEPOSIT WORKS.
2.102 . (1) The department may occasionally be called upon to execute works for Which the outlay is provided wholly or impart from:-
       (a) funds of a public nature, but not included in the financial estimates and accounts of
the West Pakistan Province;
       (b)) contributions from the public (or local bodies.)
      (2) Powers of the Chief Engineer, Regional Engineer Superintending Engineers and Divisional Officers to authorize the undertaking of deposit works are given in paragraph 5.31 which must be exercised in strict conformity with the rules in paragraphs 2.105 to 2.108. These limits are exclusive of establishment and tools and plant charges.
(3) Contribution works in the case of which it is proposed to give a grant-in-aid shall require sanction of Government.
      The Finance Department need not be consulted in regard to contribution works unless it is proposed to give a grant-in-aid towards the work from Provincial revenues. It should however be consulted by the Administrative Department in all cases in which it is proposed to give a grant-in-aid not excess of one lakh requires and in all other cases in which under an other rule sanction to a grant-in-aid not exceeding one lakh requires previous consultation with the Finance Department. See also Annexure D to this Chapter.
2.103. Where a work is to be carried out partly from funds provided in the estimates of the department and partly from funds of the foregoing nature, the contribution will be considered as a lump sum in addition to the Government grant, and the work executed in strict accordance with the procedure laid down for public works. -
[Chap. II	WORKS—DEPOSIT WORKS	2. 104—2. 105]
2.104. The contributions should be realized before any liability is incurred on account of the work, but, where such 4 procedure has been sanctioned by the West Pakistan Government recovery may be made from the contributor by suitable installments on fixed dates. No interest will be allowed on sums deposited as private contributions for public works.
      (2) No deposit should be received for —Deposit Works” until such time as the works have been sanctioned by competent authority
2.105. In cases where the department undertakes to design and construct a work wholly from the sources alluded to in paragraph 2.102 such as a town hail or reservoir for a municipality, or a school or hospital for which funds have been raised by subscription, the following rules will be observed:-
 (I) On receipt of‘ definite assurance as to the amount of funds available, the design and estimate will be drawn up in communication with the party or parties, depositing or administering the funds and must be submitted for the approval of such higher local departmental authority as the extent of the estimate would require.
(II) Provision must be made to cover the cost of establishment and tools and plant referred in pan- graph 229 together with an addition of one per vent for audit and accounts establishment. No reduction in these charges should be made without the sanction of Government. See Appendix 5 of West Pakistan Account Code.
       (III) Prior to the work being put in hand a written approval to the estimate and design must be obtained from the authority depositing or administering the funds and acknowledgement procured to the effect that in undertaking the work the depart men does not accept responsibility for unavoidable and reasonable excesses, such as would be caused by a rise in the price of labour Or material, by au thorised alterations in design, loss by fire or theft, or by other factors which could not be foreseen at the time -the estimate was prepared. Any alteration in design must be similarly dealt with.
(IV) The necessary funds for the prosecution of the work must be realized and paid into the Government treasury either in a lump sum or in such installments and by such dates as the Government shall decide in each case. No advance of Government money for such purpose will be permitted and in a case where the money is paid by inst installments Government will not be responsible for any increase in cost,. or damage to the uncompleted work caused by a temporary stoppage of the work pending receipt of further installments.
(V) It will be the duty of the Officer-in-charge of the work to bring at once to the notice of his superiors and of the local body or individuals any anticipated excess over the estimate, as well as to provide the fullest information i connection with the progress of expenditure so that no responsibility may attach to Government in the event of the work	having	to	be	stopped	for	want	of	funds.
(VI) In ease of deposit works all anticipated excesses owing to the tenders having been received in excess of the estimated rates should be brought at once to notice of the local body or the party concerned under paragraph 2.105-V above accepting the excess and	arranging	the	funds	accordingly.
(VII) Authorities undertaking such works should satisfy themselves that the extent to which Government is responsible in regard to the execution of the work is thoroughly understood both by the parties for whom the work is to be constructed and by the executive officer to whom its construction is to be entrusted.
(VIII) Where the work is of magnitude, or there are any special circumstances which seem to render such a course desirable, an agreement should be drawn up under legal advice,
2106. It must be distinctly understood that contributions on account of one work can, in no circumstances, be utilized in meeting outlay on account of another work, the contributions for which may be in arrears.
Works—DISPOSAL OF ESTIMATES 2 .107—2.109]
SUPPLEMENTARY AND REVISED ESTIMATES.
I—DISPOSAL OF ESTIMATES
I—OFFICE OF RECORD FOR ESTIMATES
2.107. (i)	The original estimates after being sanctioned by proper authority, should be
returned to the Divisional Officer for record in his office and the copies retained in the offices giving sanction and those below him up to Executive Engineer if estimate is sanctioned by Chief Engineer the copies be retained by the Chief Engineer and by Regional Engineer and Superintending Engineer. If it is sanctioned by Regional Engineer, a copy of it should similarly be	retained	by	Regional	Engineer	and	Superintending	Engineer.
      (11) The estimates sanctioned by Chief Engineer, Regional Engineer and Superintending Engineer, must be sent in sufficient number of copies so that one copy be retained by sanctioning authority and another by lower authority right up to Divisional Officer.
      Il—COMMUNICATION OF SANCTIONS TO ESTIMATES
TO TEE AUDIT OFFICE
2. 108 (1) immediate intimation of the sanction to an estimate should be made to the Audit Officer by the authority sanctioning it under copy to all lower formations.
2.1. A consolidated monthly return of all estimates sanctioned by the Divisional Officer or higher authority should be sent by the Divisional Officer on the 5th of each month to the • Audit Office direct sending a copy thereof to the Superintending Engineer.
2.2. The Superintending Engineer is responsible that in case where a substantial section of a project sanctioned by higher authority has been abandoned, even though provisionally, the aggregate assumed cost (including contingencies) of the works included in that section is intimated to the Audit Officer for exclusion from the total sanctioned estimate of the project. See also paragraph 2.86.
      J-SUPPLEMENTARY AND REVISED ESTIMATES
I—SUPPLEMENTARY ESTIMATES
2.109. Any development of a project thought necessary while a work is in progress, which is not fairly contingent on the proper execution of the work as first sanctioned. Must be
covered by a supplementary estimate, accompanied by a full report of the circumstances which render it necessary. The abstract must show the amount of the original estimate and the total of the sanction required including the supplementary amount.
II—REVISED ESTIMATE
2.110. A revised estimate must be submitted when the sanctioned estimate is likely to be exceeded by more than 5 per cent either from the rates being found, insufficient, or from any cause whatever.
2.111. When, a revised estimate is submitted, it must be accompanied by .a comparative statement (Buildings and Roads stereo No. 42.44) and by a report showing the progress made to date.
      It is the duty alike of the Divisional Officer and of the Superintending Engineer to watch carefully the progress of expenditure and to see that a revised estimate is submitted immediately the necessity arises.
2.112. When the submission of a revised estimate under the above rules is found necessary, it is essential that the revised estimate should be compared with the latest existing sanction of competent authority, see paragraph 2.86. When by reason of intermediate modifications such existing sanction differs from that accorded by the highest authority concerned, a statement should be prepared showing how the sanction with which the revised estimate is compared has
been arrived at.
2.113. A revised estimate will also become necessary, it at any time, either before or
during the construction of a work, it is found that the original, estimate for it is excessive ‘for reasons other than abandonment of. a substantial section of a sanctioned project or material deviation from the original proposals, an officer of rank not lower than Divisional Officer or may sanction such a revised estimate, even though its amount may exceed that to which he is ordinarily empowered to accord sanction. When according such sanction he should intimate, giving reasons, to the authority who sanctioned the original estimate and to the Director Audit and Accounts (Works), West Pakistan that the amount of the estimate has been reduced ‘accordingly.
chap- II	WOKS-COMPLETION REPORTS,	2.114-2.115
CERTIFICATES AND PLANS
III-UTILIZATION OF COMPLETION
Report or statement as revised estimate
2.114. When excesses occur at such an advanced period in the construction of a work as
to render the submission of a revised estimate purposeless, the excesses, If beyond the power of the Divisional Officer to pass, may be explained in completion Report or Statement prepared under the rules in paragraph 2.115 but when excesses of more than 5 per cent are show in a completion report it should be explained why a revised estimate was not submitted before the work wag completed, and the Superintending Engineer should report whether the probability of an excess occurring was reported to him on a work sup as required by‘ paragraph 1.54.
K-COMPLETION REPORTS, CERTIFICATES
AND PLANS I-GENERAL
2.115. (1) A detailed completion Report or a Completion Statement as necessary,-tide
clause (2) must be prepared on the completion of works in the following cases:-
      (i)	( For all works chargeable to capital regardless of the actual expenditure being
equal to or more or less than the sanctioned amount.
      (ii) (is) For works chargeable to heads other than Capital: -
      (a ) if the estimate of the work has been exceeded by more than 5 per cent,
      (b)	if the actual expenditure on a work exceeds the limit of the Divisional Officer‘s
power to sanction estimates technically, even if the excess is within 5 per cent of the amount of the estimate, and
      (c ) if there has been an excess over a revised estimate
      (2) (A) Detailed completion report in Buildings and Roads Account Form 44, 47 is to be submitted on completion of works, on which the outlay has been recorded by sub-heads. It should give a comparison and explanation of differences between the quantities rates, and cost of various items of work executed and those in the estimate, and should also mention
2.166	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	Chap-II
The names of the Engineers, and Overseers, who supervise the work from time to time during the period of its execution.
      Note-The Superintending Engineer may, if be so desires require a detailed completion report to be prepared on the completion of any other work.
(b) A completion statement in —Buildings and Roads Account Form 45 showing the total estimated cost, the outlay and the excess, if any, is to be submitted to completion of other works as defined in sub-paragraph (I) supra. A consolidated statement should be prepared monthly of all such works completed during the mouth.
When the completion statement is to be utilized instead of a revised estimate under paragraph 2.114, sufficient details must be given to satisfy the authority, whose sanction is necessary.
(3) In eases where no completion report of statement is required to be submitted by the Divisional Officer the date of completion of all major works should be reported to the Superintending Engineer who is required to inform the Head of the. Department direct, as well as the Provincial Government in the Buildings and Roads Department, of dates of completion of works sanctioned by them or by the Chief Engineer.
Note - Similar produce should be followed in reporting late of commencement of all major works to the Head of department and the provincial Government
II-WORKS EXECUTED ON BEHALF OF OTHER DEPARTMENT
2.116 On the completion of an original work executed on behalf of another department, a completion certificate in West Pakistan Buildings and Roads Stereo Form N. 130 should be forwarded by the Divisional Officer to the civil and military authority concerned, who should, after signing it in the space provided for the purpose-(vide also paragraph 2.120) return it to the Divisional Officer.
(2) In the case of repairs, the Sub-Divisional Officer should submit a completion certificate in West Pakistan Buildings and Roads Stereo Form No. 129 to the officer of the department immediately interested in the work who should, after endorsing it with the remark that the work is in —good order” or otherwise, forward it to his departmental superior (if he is not himself the officer competent to sign the certificates). The later officer should then transmit to the Divisional Officer for disposal.
(Chap. II	WORKS - COMPLETION REPORTS	2.117-2.120
CERTIFICATES AND PLANS
(3) The completion certificate in the case of pety works and repairs will be endorsed on the requisition West Pains- tan Account Form No. 32 and no separate certificate is then required.
117. Civil and Military Officers are required to fill up and sign all authorized forms of requisition, completion report or other certificate of execution that may be required by the Divisional Officer in consequence of the execution of any work on their application or order.
2.118. The countersignature of a Civil and Military Officer merely implies, in the case of an original work, that the work has been completed and taken over, and in the case of repairs that the building or work generally, is in proper order, and involves no further responsibility. If the counter- signing officer is not satisfied - with the work and wishes to make any remarks, he can do so over his signature, but he‘ should bear in mind, that, in making remarks which are unnecessary or irrelevant, he may occasion much trouble and delay. See also paragraph 2.124.
III—RECORD AND OTHER DRAWING & AND PLAINS
2.119. Record drawings, showing the work as actually constructed, should be completed as soon as possible by the officer in immediate charge of every new work or alteration of an existing work, for approval and record by the Divisional Officer (vide paragraph 2.120
      Completion plans, consisting of copies of the record plans of the more important works and alterations, should, if required to elucidate the report or if otherwise, so directed by the Superintending Engineer be prepared in the Divisional Office to accompany the completion report.
      Note-similar procedure should be followed in reporting date of commencement of all major works to the Read of Department and the Provincial Government.
Note-(i)) Recode drawings of important municipal works constructed by the Buildings and Roads Department should be supplied to the Municipality concerned.
Note—(2) Record drawings of buildings should consist of a site plan, ground plan, elevation and one or two actions as may be necessary to illustrate the work preferably one sheet. Detail, of doors, windows etc‘ are not required.
      2.120. (1) A Divisional Officer must keep on record in his office the following plans or such of them as are required in his Division-
(i) Copies of all standard plans of buildings.
(ii) Complete plans, sections, and elevations of every building under his charge whether military, or Civil, as actually constructed, any departures from sanctioned design being carefully noted. The boundaries of the ground attached to any buildings should be distinctly shown.
(iii) Plans of roads under his charge showing the quarries whence metal is obtained. (iv) Detailed drawings including foundations, where practicable of all bridges, and other works in the Division as actually constructed, any departures from sanctioned design being carefully noted, the boundaries of the ground attached thereto being distinctly shown.
(v) Complete land plans of all land in the possession of Government, viz. -
(a) Land for which a Divisional Officer is directly responsible.
      (b) Land belonging to buildings borne on the book
of the Department.
(c) Land appertaining to works. made over to Local Authorities.
(d) Lands encroached upon by local bodies and allowed to remain in their possession, subject to the condition that they are liable to be resumed by Government in the event of their being required for a public purpose.
      (e) Land Leased to private persons.
(vi) Complete plans of all storm water drains, river, with its boundary under his charge together with longitudinal section and cross section at suitable scale.
(vii) Longitudinal section of all sewers showing main- hole junctions, screen, inlet in to chamber along with reduced level.
(vii) Longitudinal section showing diameter of all pipe lines, rising mains, distribution lines, fire hues, Hydrants, wells of all descriptions.
(iv)	Geological sections of all boreholes together with
completion strata-chart with strainers, blank pipe, junction bail plug, and top casing.
(x) Complete site plans showing the locality of a tube- well and its discharge on its completion together with, depression head.
(xi) Complete plans of all spring which serve as sources for water supply or wells or other
 water supply sources together with their discharges. Complete plan of all reservoir on head works or along with the distribution system.
(xii) Complete plans of electric installations overhead and underground internal head as well as external r up to sub-section if under the charge of Buildings and Roads Department.
2. In Circle Offices the following record plans should be maintained:-
(i) All plains as per I above for office record.
(ii) Copies of all standard plans for well chambers, pump chambers reservoir, community
      latrine disposal works and other standard sanitary works.
(iii) Copies of all standard type drains, egg shaped sewer or reinforced cement concrete sewers.
(iv) Completion plans of all important earthwork on bund or embankments.
(v) Maps of districts and civil stations in the West‘ Pakistan, Linear maps of the Principal Lines of roads in the West Pakistan.
      (Superintending Engineers and Divisional Officers should keep these maps in so far as they relate to their respective charges corrected up-to-date).
(vi) Copies of all standard plans of buildings.
3. In. the Chief Engineer‘s office the following record plans will be maintained : -
(i) Maps of districts and civil stations in the West Pakistan.
(ii) Copies of all standard plans of buildings.
‘Note—plans mentioned as items (I) to 2) also be kept on record in the Chief Engineer Office.
2.	Similarly the regional engineer shall maintain, all plans mentioned above relating to his
region in his office.
(4) All record‘, plans must be kept up-to-date, and it will he the duty of the Divisional Officer to forward completion
88
2.121 plans of all additions and alterations to the Superintending Engineer for correction of the Circle Office copies. Similarly the Superintending Engineer is responsible that such plans are forwarded to the Regional Engineer and the Chief Engineer‘s. office for correction of the record plans there maintained.
      (5) Where a number of bridges or other masonry works have been made of the same type it will not be necessary to forward conies of the record plans of each one of them. It will be sufficient to notify in the letter forwarding the completion report that the work is of the same type as that submitted with a previous letter, the number and date of which should be given.
      (6) Superintending Engineers during their inspection should see that the record plans are maintained and are corrected up-to-date.
      2.121. A record plan should be correct representation of the work as actually built. Thus, in the case of well foundations, it should show in plan the exact position of all the wells, and in sectional elevation in the directions at right angles to each other, the exact depth to which they have been sunk. This will exhibit all changes in position of wells and deviations from the vertical which have occurred in the course of sinking_and have remained uncertified. The wells should bear on the record plan the same numbers as they have borne during construction and a statement should appear on the drawing showing the reduced level of the curb of each well after completion of sinking. The position and dimensions of all any pales or planks driven to close the spaces between wells should be clearly shown, as should also be the concrete or other materials used to fill the wells or the spaces between them. A details of the corbelling or arching employed to connect wells should be drawn separately on a scale large enough to show the details.
      (2) In the case of concrete foundations, the outside edges should be correctly plotted end, where piling or stakes are used to surround or partition off the foundation area, their position should be shown. Changes in foundation level should Se correctly shown in sectional elevation and the reduced levels of the base and top of the concrete should be given. In case of any other material being used beneath the concrete it nature and dimensions must be clearly shown.
[Chap. II	WORKS—COMPLETION REPORTS,	2.122
CERTIFICATES AND PLANS
      (3) Reduced levels of all important points of the work, as found after its completion should be entitled on the drawings.
      (4 Geological sections should be given in the case of work in which the foundation level is more than six feet below the natural surface.
      (5) Separate drawings should be made to show the details of iron work and wood work and of any other important structural details -
      2-122. Ordinarily, on the completion of a work, the record drawings should be completed by the Officer in immediate charge; and, after being signed and dated by him under an entry as executed, they should be sent to the Divisional Officer, who, if satisfied as to their correctness, should countersign them and date them and have the necessary copies made for submission with the completion report where necessary.
       (2) In order that no difficulties shall arise in consequence of the transfer of an Officer-in- charge of a work, on all large works a progress should be maintained and kept thoroughly up-to- date on which all departures from the sanctioned design should be shown. For small works the outgoing officer should record on the working drawing the level to which the work was built under his charge, giving notes of any deviations is from the sanctioned plan.
      (3) Completion plans should be prepared and attested as soon as possible after the completion of a work.
       (4) A register of completion plans received should be- maintained in the Divisional drawing office.
      (5) An annual statement should be submitted on 10th- October by Divisional Officer to Superintending Engineer giving details or estimates which have been closed during the year but for which completion plans have not been received within 3 months after the date of closing the estimate.
      2-123. Every plan and drawing, of whatever kind, must be properly authenticated by the dated signature of the Office, by whom, or under whose orders it is prepared .
      (2) In all completion plans, besides the certificate of completion according to drawing, the names of the Executive Officers by whom the work was designed and by whom it was executed, should also be given.
      (3) The name or signature of every officer and the date of the signature, which is on a plan Or drawing of any kind, should be shown on all copies of such plan or drawing.
IV—OFFICE OF RECORD
2.124. (1) On the completion of any work in respect of which a completion Report or Statement is required under paragraph 2.115, such report or statement should be forwarded by the Divisional Officer to the Audit Officer, who should, after verification of the figures, transmit it to the Superintending Engineer: That Officer should forward to the Chief Engineer through the Regional Engineer completion Reports or Statements of all works, the estimates of which have been exceeded beyond his power of sanction. A copy of the completion report or statement of those capital works on which there has either been no excess or the excess is within the Superintending Engineer‘s powers of sanction, should also be supplied by the Superintending Engineer to the Chief Engineer through the Regional Head for note and return.
      (After disposal, the completion report or statement will be finally recorded in the office of the authority sanctioning the estimate).
      (2) Sanctions accorded to excess expenditure in completion reports should also be communicated to the head of the Department concerned (and to Government in the Public Works Department in case of sanctions accorded by Superintending Engineers) to keep them informed of the completion of works.
      (3) Completion plans, if any, should not be sent to the Il Audit Officer but should be forwarded direct to the Superintending Engineer who should attach them to the completion report on its receipt.
      (4) completion certificates, which should not be submitted to audit, should ordinarily be retained hi the Divisional office, bit in the event of unfavorable remarks having been corded upon such a certificate by any Civil or Military Officer, it should be submitted for the orders of the Superintending Engineer with the explanation of the Divisional Officer and an account of an action he may have taken.
Chap. II	WORKS-COMPLETION REPORTS,	2. 125]
CERTIFICATES AND PLANS
V-PREPARATION AND DISPOSAL OF COMPLETION
REPORTS,
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS.
2125.	Completion reports should be prepared and submitted in accordance with the
instructions contained in paragraphs 2.115 and 2.124 supra .
(2) Under paragraph 2.124 completion reports will be Med in the office of the
sanctioning authority. The following detailed, instructions should be observed in this connection:-
      (a) Consolidated completion statements in West Pakistan Account Form No. 45 of estimates sanctioned by the Divisional Officer the actual expenditure on which is in excess, of the sanctioned estimate by an amount beyond the Divisional Officer‘s powers of passing, should be sent direct to the Director Audit and Accounts (Works), West Pakistan who will, after verification, forward the same to the Superintending Engineer concerned. The latter will sanction the excess and communicate it to the Divisional Officer and the Director Audit and Accounts (Works), West Pakistan. In cases where the excess is beyond the Superintending Engineer‘s. powers to pass he will take necessary Steps to obtain the Government‘s sanction.
      (b) Completion reports of estimates sanctioned by Super- intending Engineers the outlay on which is in excess of the sanction estimate by an amount greater than that which the Divisional Officer is empowered to pus, should be forwarded 7 by the Divisional Officer direct to the Director Audi and. Accounts Works, West Pakistan, who will after verification pass tin the same to the Superintending Engineer concerned. The excess will be considered and sanctioned by the Superintending Engineer if within his powers of sanction. by a separate letter, and communicated to the Divisional Officer and Director Audit and Accounts (Works), West ‘Pakistan If the excess is beyond the power of sanction of the Superintending Engineer will take necessary, steps to get the sanction of competent authority.
      (c) Completion reports of estimates sanctioned by the Chief Engineer or Government, the actual expenditure on which is in excess of the, sanctioned estimate by an amount beyond the Divisional Officer‘s power to pass, should be sub
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	Chap. II
submitted direct to the Director Audit and Accounts (Works), who will, after verification, transmit the same to the Superintending Engineer concerned who will sanction the excess, if -within his powers of sanction by latter. The Superintending Engineer shall forward a copy of the letter with the completion report in original to the Chief Engineer through regional officer for record. When the excess is beyond the powers of sanction of the Superintending Engineer, he will forward the completion report together with needful explanations by the Divisional Officer and himself for sanction of the excess by competent authority. Necessary sanction of Government to such excess will be communicated to the Chief Engineer and Director. Audit and Accounts (Works), West Pakistan, and tre completion report filed in the Secretariat.
(d) Detailed completion reports in West Pakistan Account Form 44 will be prepared in respect of works on which the outlay has been recorded by sub-heads.
(e) Registers of sanctions should be posted in each office as the Completion Report is received.
      (f) Particular instructions for the preparation and disposal of completion reports relating to the Buildings and Roads Departments are given in the Buildings and Roads Manual of Orders, paragraphs 8.11 to 8.16.


ANNEXURE
ANNEXURE CA‘ TO CHAPTER II
(REFERENCE PARAGRAPH 2 AND 3)
9.2 of D,P,R (Pb). Power in respect f purchase manufacture etc of stores and increases and decreases in the reserve stock lint (see Rules 6’2)
  S.NoNature of powersDepartmentExtent to which assent is given12341To sanction the purchase of livestock and the purchase manufacture and repair of articles included under eh minor head tools and plant except the purchase of motor vehicles.Buildings and roads department.Up to Rs.40,000 in any one case.2To sanction purely temporary increases of the reserve stock limits of a divisionDittoFull powers provided such increases are absorbed within six months from the date of increase9. 2 of power of the according of administrative approval and the sanctioning of estimates etc Rule 7.8.

Note—-In the case of large projects, the Finance Department may at the time o; intimating its concurrence in administrative approval to a general project estimate define the extent to which such concurrence permits of the presumption of Finance Department assent. to the sanction of the working estimate when these are prepared prior to the issue of technical sanction by the authority concerned.
Serial
NaNature of powerDepartmentExtent to which assent is given   12341 Administrative approval in expenditure on minor works other than works in connection with a building intended to be used as the residence of a Government servant or a S-house or inspection bungalow and works such s. tube. Well and pumping plants, etc., the running cost of which will exceed Rs. 1,200 per annum.Ali Departments except Forest and Irrigation Department.Full powers, subject to the condition that J the total expenditure which It is proposed to incur on a particular building within a single financial year exceeds Rs. 10,000 the con. currency of the Finance Department must be obtained before incurring any pert of it.

     [Annexure ]	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[Chap.II
Serial
NaNature of powerDepartmentExtent to which assent is given    12342Administrative approval to expenditure on minor works is connections purchase or conversion of a balding intended to be used as the residence of a Government servantAll Department- Pull power provided (a) that the standard rent as calculated under Fundamental Rule 45-A or rule 5.23 of the Civil Services Rules (Punjab). Volume I. does not exceed 12 ‘A per cent of the average pay of the class of Government servant who will usually occupy the building; (b) that assent is not presumed to any such expenditure which is not expected to bring In an adequate return en the capital cost by reason of either no rent being charged or the rent to be charged	being	lees	than	that
recoverable under rule 45-A of the Fundamental Rules or under the rules In Chapter V of the Civil Services Rules (Punjab) Volume I end (c) that the building is assigned to the holder of a specified post whole bound by the	terms	to	live	in	It.
Before giving financial con. Sent to expenditure, In respect of estimates classified as Major works, the Finance Department will require to be satisfied that the conditions specified above are fulfilled with the substitution of 10 for 12 A per cent In proviso (a). Up to a limit of Rs. 1.000 In each case Irrespective of the coat of the building and subject to any general orders of the competent authority regulating the supply by Government of any special fittings in any particular type of residence and to the provisos that-
(i) When the residence Is classed as Major or a Minor work remains so after the proposed work is carried out, the standard rent as calculated under Fundamental Rule 45.3Administrative approval to expenditure on original works in connection with existing residential buildingsBuilding & Roads Department
     [Chap-II)	ANNEXURE A
Serial
NaNature of powerDepartmentExtent to which assent is given    1234    3Administrative approval to Buildings and Roads expenditure on original Department. works in connection with exulting residential building s concledBuilding & Roads DepartmentA, or under the rules in Chapter V of the Civil Services Rules (Punjab). Volume I, on the final capital cost does not exceed 10 per cent or 12 ^ per cent, respectively, as the case may be, of the average pay of the class of Government servants who usually accuracy the bodings
(ii) When the residence Is already classed as a Minor work and becomes
a Major work after the proposed work is carried out the consent of the Finance Department must be obtained before any expenditure is incurred on it. The
power conferred above may be exercised in respect of buildings allowed rent. free, provided that the necessary for allotment has been accepted by the Finance Department
STATEMENT SHOWING POWERS DELEGATED TO VARIOUS OFFICERS IN TUE
INTEGRATING UNITS immediately BEFORE l4th OCTOBER 1966.
TO SANCTION PURCHASE MANUFACTURE ETO OF STORES
Serial
NaNature of powerDepartmentExtent to which assent is given    1234    3To purchase office furniture up to RS. 1.000 for each estimate provided the sanction to an estimate exceeding RS. 500 is confirmed by Chief Engineer before purchase of articles (Rule 10 -2).Superintending engineer building and Road Department.

Serial
NaNature of powerTo whom delegatedExtent    1234    6To sanction estimate for purchase and manufacture of tools and plants (excluding live stock tents office furniture and motor vehicles (Rule 10.2)Superintending Engineer building and road department up to Rs 4.000 for each estimate.
Selected Executive engineer Building and road up to Rs.500 for each estimate non selected Executive Engineer up to 200 for each estimate
Superintending Engineer full powers within the budget provision for their respective circles Executive Engineer building & roads Department selected Rs .1.000 non selected Rs.5,000.11To sanction estimate for repairs and carriage of tools and plant rule 10.2)20To order from a Government W/S materials stores or manufactured articles for which due provision has been made in a sanctioned estimated    1To sanction estimates for purchase or manufacture of materials to be used on works (Rule 10.3).Superintending Engineers full powers within the lime sanctioned reserve stock
Superintending Engineers full powers within the lime sanctioned reserve stock
Executive Engineer full powers within the limits sanctioned for reserve stock subject to the approval or sanction of the estimate being obtained where required by the provision of paragraphs 4.24 and 2.25 of the building and road Department code    2To purchase or manufacture materials to the used on work
      To accord administrative to works (see paragraph 2.5 of buildings and road Department code rule 10.4 of D.F.R
       Note: the money limits specified in the delegations below relate to the entire estimated cost of a work including both original works and repairs if any and not merely to the cost of the proton relating only to original works
ANNEXURE
Serial
NoNature of powerTo whom delegatedExtent    1234To convey administrative approval to proposals for works other than residential building appertaining to their respective department falling under the following minor heads of 50 civil works original works building
A land revenue pro vicinal excise general administrative agriculture and industries fisheries onlyFinancial commissionerUp to Rs. 10,000 also for work appertaining to Colony towns falling under head 81 capital account of civil works outside the revenue Account(b) land revenue general administrationCommissioners of divisionsUp to Rs.3,5000 works appertaining to Civil rest houses dak bungalow treasury buildings and miscellaneous building relating to their Divisions.© Provincial ExciseDittoUp to Rs.3,5000, for works appertaining to the excise department(d ) registrationInspector General of recitationUp to Rs.5,000 for works appertaining to the department of registration(e ) General administration of justiceJugs of the high curtUp to Rs.10,000 for works pertaining to the high court district and sessions court sub ordinate judges courts and subsidiary buildings(g ) jals and convict sentimentInspector General of prisonsUp to Rs. 5,000 for works appertaining to central and district jails lock ups and miscellaneous building of the jail department


Serial
NoNature of power      To whom delegatedExtent1234(h ) Police(I ) inspector General of policeUp to Rs.5,000 for works appertaining to police lines and than as and miscellaneous building of the police departmentEuropean and anglo Pakistan education(ii ) Deputy inspector general of policeUp to Rs. 1,000 for works appearing to police lines and thanes and miscellaneous buildings of the police department(ii) European and anglo Pakistan educationDeputy inspector general of policeUp to Rs.5,000 for works appertaining to government collages ad schools and miscellaneous buildings or the education department( i) MedicalDeputy inspector general Civil HospitalUp to Rs.5,000 for works appertaining to hospitals and dispensaries medical collages and schools mental hospitals and miscellaneous building of the medical department(k ) police healthDirector of Public HealthUp to Rs.5,000 for works appearing to the Punjab vaccine institute and miscellaneous buildings of the department of public health( L Agriculture industries fisheries onlyDirector agricultureUp to Ts.5,000 for works appertaining to the department of agriculture and fisheries(m) veterinaryDirector of veterinary servicesUp to Rs,5.000 for works appertaining to the department of the veterinary department.(n )Co-operative credit"Up to Rs. 2, 500 for works appertaining to the co-operative societies department.(o) industries (except f industries (except fisheriesUp to Rs.2,500 for work appertaining to the Department of industries

[ANNEXURE-A
Serial
NoNature of power      To whom delegatedExtent12342To convey administrative approval to proposals for works other than residential buildings.Superintending engineers buildings and roads departmentFor all works both buildings and combination which do not appertaining to any particular department and to the extent of Rs.2,5000 provided that the amount for original works close not exceed Rs,2,500 only falling under the minor heads original works buildings civil works or communications of the major head 50 civil works3To convey administrative approval to estimates of capital expenditure on the construction or purchase of residences for Government servants to meet the requirements of their respective departmentHeads	of	Department
named in entryUp to Rs.2,000 for the total cost of buildings provided that the rental value of the building to fundamental rule 45-A or the rules in Chapter	V of the civil
services rules Punjab volume 1 shall not exceed	10	per cent of the average
emoluments of the class of govt servants for whom it is intended.4To convey administrative approval to estimates of capital expenditure on works in connection with existing residential buildings to meet the requirements of all the departmentChief Engineer..Up to Rs2, 000 and as in entry 3 above .5To convey administrative approval to estimates of capital expenditure on works in connection with existing residential buildingsDittoUp to Rs,4.000 for the total cost of building and as in entry 3 above .6To accord administrative approval to estimates of expenditure on works in connection with existing resident buildingsDitto...Up to limit of Rs.2000 for each case irrespective or the capital cost of the building which includes the cost of sanitary installations and as in entry 3 above.
*The power conferred in serial Nos. 3 to 6 in regard to administrative approval to minutes of expenditure on original works in connection with residential buildings may be exercised in respect if buildings allowed rent-flee, provided that the necessity for rent-free allotment has been accepted by the Finance Department.
[ANNEXURE -A ]	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[CHAP.II
Serial NoNature of powerTo whom delegatedExtent    1234Also that no addition is made which is not covered by the sanctioned type design or is of a nature not usually providedADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL TO WORKS
(Rules 20.15. of P.F.R    7To convey administrative approval to estimates for the repairs of patwarkhanas         Director of land record     Up to 250 in each case    8To convey administrative approval to estimates for the construction or repair of patwarkhans        Financial commissioners         Full Powers    9To convey administrative approval to proposals for works other than residential buildings       Inspector general of prisonsUp to Rs.2,500 only for works appertaining to central10To convey administrative approval to expenditure on all petty and annual repairs as well as original works or special repairs to building under the control of the border military police or baluch levy     1. Commissioner, multan
         Division
     2. Deputy Commissioner, Dera
         Ghazi Khan
     3. Commissioner, boader or
         commandant baluch levyUp to Rs.1,500
Up to Rs.,500
Up to Rs.30011To convey administrative approval to proposals for works other than residential buildings under paragraph 5.10 of the Punjab public works Department code second edition as applicable to Punjab PakistanInspector General of PoliceFor works of petty and annual repairs as well as original works or special repairs to buildings in the apartment falling under the minor head works of the major head 29- police and to the extent of Rs.2,500 only.

Annexure -A
Serial NoNature of powerTo whom delegatedExtent123412convey administrative approval to works for non residential buildings for the police departmentDeputy General of Police
Superintendents of police principal police training school	and	assistant
superintendents of police in charge of the Punjab constabulary     1.	For works of all petty and annual
repairs as well as original works or special repairs to building in the charge of the police department falling under the minor head works of the major head 29-police and to the extent of Rs1,500 only.
         ii. for works described in
i.	Above to the extent of Rs. 300.
         Only13To convey administrative approval to proposals for works including residential buildings for menialsDirector Animal Husbandry department PunjabFor works of petty and annual repairs to buildings such as kacha menials quarters implement sheds dutchbarns etc falling under the minor head works of the major head 41 veterinary and to extent of Rs.55,000 only*Menial — means the holder of a post in inferior service the expenditure on which is charged to contingencies .he is now called a low paid government servantTo convey administrative approval to proposals for works including residential building for menials and tenantsDirector of Agriculture PunjabFor petty original work relating to kacha pacca buildings and structures such as field office and laboratories stores implements workshop and juice boiling abeds bullock byres kacha or kacha pacca or pacca quarter for manilas and tenant pucca wells tanks water channels and culverts fences bird proof case the agricultural department including the fisheries section and the maintenance and repair of

ANNEXURE)	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	CHAP-II
Serial NoNature of power       To whom delegatedExtent1234Buildings and structures put by the Departments falling under the minor head works of the major head 40 agriculture and 43 industries and to the extent of Rs.2, 5000 only.*Note—The knobs structure is one where the work is -in wan dried bricks In .mud with burnt bricks in mud in certain essential places, such as jambs of doors and windows or arches. •
Menial” means the holder of a past in inferior service, the expenditure on which is charged to contingencies. lie is now called a low-head paid Government Servants rules 1O.5 of D.F.R(Pb).
TO	ACCORD TECHNICAL	SANCTION	TO	SANCTION ESTIMATES FOR AND
EXPENDITURE ON WORKS OR TO DIVERT PROVISION UNDER WORKS    19To accord technical sanction to detail estimate for original works and special repairsExecutive engineer building and road department selected officer otherRs.10,000 for each work up to 1,000 for each works      Executive Engineer
Excluding department charges for establishment and tools and plantUp to Rs. 1,000 for each works    25To accord technical sanction to estimates for maintenance and repairs       Chief EngineerFull Powers    26Ditto    Superintending EngineerUp to two lakh in each case and within the limits as singed for his circle in the budget estimate under each head of service    27To accord sanction to estimate for ordinary repairs      Executive EngineerWithin limits of sanctioned stereo typed estimates and budget allotment placed at their disposal    28To divert provision for contingencies of a sanctioned estimate to new works or repairs not provided for in the estimate    Superintending EngineerFull Powers    29.DittoExecutive Engineer
Selected officers class 1 selected officers class II & III
Non selectedRs.1,500
1,000
500
     CHAP-II	ANNEXURE -A)
Serial NoNature of powerTo whom delegatedExtent    1234    7To issue work order for works and repairs
DittoExecutive Engineer
    Sub Divisional officerUp to Rs.10,	000 subject to the
condition that the amount exceeds the powers of Sub-Divisional officers
4, 000    3to create posts of work charge establishment in connection with handing and oust day etc of stockSuperintending EngineerUp to Rs. 50 per mensem for each post so create and subject to the conditions
     a) Necessary funds either
already exist or have been provided by competent authority
     b) The pay and allowances of no
such posts shall exceed the prescribed rates in cases where such rates have been definitely laid down by a higher authority for any particular lass of appointments    4To accept tenders    Sub Divisional officersUp to Rs.4,000Grants , concessions, leases, etc (rule 2.45)  Serial
NoNature of power      To whom delegatedExtent    1234  20.418Security bonds for the due performance of duties by government servantsChief Engineer superintending Engineer divisional officers buildings and roads departmentIn cases of government servants whom they are empowered to appoint to vacant	posts cribbed in paragraphs
1.154 of the building and roads department code second edition)28To sanction leases for grazing cattle on road sidesSuperintending Engineer .Executive EngineersFull powers up to year, provided the rental does not exceed Rs. 500.

Serial NoNature of powerTo whom delegatedExtent1234    28To sanction leases of houses, land, or other immovable property belonging to Government.(i)Superintending Engineers, Buildings and Roads Department.
(II) Divisional officers Buildings and Roads Department.Up to one year ,provided that the rent of the property as fied by competent authority does not exceed.
     (i)	Rs. 200 a month.
     (ii)	Rs. 100 a month.    30To sanction agreements with auctioneers for conducting the sale of Government stores by public auction.Superintending Engineers Buildings Roads Department.Up to 1 year only and subject to the condition that the terms of the leases are those embodied in Stereo Building and Roads No. 93.20.6 Rewards, fees, bonus, remuneration, grants for uniform and equipment, etc. (accepting fees and honoraria Granted to Government Servants) under the F.D. and C.S.R (Pb). Vol.I, Part I.Serial NoNature of powerTo whom delegatedExtent1234  20.6(1)To grant cash rewards to meet funeral and other unavoidable expenses to the relations of all Government servants drawing pay up to Rs. 350 per mensem, who are killed or die of injury received as a result of special risk of office in the performance of their duties.Head of Departments.Subjects to a maximum of Rs. 500.To sanction recurring expenditure on the maintenance and repair of clocks in offices.Head Of Offices • -Up to a limit of Rs.7 a month- repair s, cleaning and oiling of office clock should be entrusted to a recognized firm of watch makers.To entertain temporary establishment chargeable to hot and cold weather charges, as for instance, punk has coolies.Ditto..Rs.15 or the market rate as fixed by the Deputy Commissioners, Whichever is greater, and for a period not exceeding six months in each case.

Serial NoNature of power       To whom delegatedExtent1234To sanction the Payment of rent for lands and houses occupied by Government for other than office and residential purposes.Head of departments (except Forest Superintending Engineers and Commissioners of Divisions).Up to a maximum of Rs. 58 a month.(Rent-house are included in houses for residential purposes).Subject to the proviso that no lease is entered into for a period of more than one year and to the condition of paragraph 82 of Appendix 14.To sanction the payment of rates or taxes levied by statute or by local rules or orders (as for instance, terminal tax or octroion Government stores.)Ditto ..Subject to the existence of budget provision.To sanction supply of liveries summer clothing, belts, cross belts, badges, and warm clothing to peons and menials.     (i)	Head of offices
and
Departments.Subject to the conditions in the rules for supply of liveries, etc, in Appendix 15.To sanction purchase of type-writers for themselves and offices subordinate to themHeads of Departments, Superintending Engineers, Buildings and roads Department, Principal, the Punjab Collage of Engineering and Technology, Lahore, Principal, Government School of Engineering, Punjab, Resul.Subject to the rules and conditions in Chapter 12 of the Stationery and Printing Manual (Fourth Edition) and to the proviso that in case where no scale of typewriters has been fixed the power can be exercised only in respect to machines purchased to replace those which have been condemned by the Board.To sanction the hiring of typewriters of approved peters for use in their own offices and offices subordinate to them.Disbursing OfficersFor a period not exceeding two months.To sanction purchase of duplicators and duplicating machines.Heads Departments and Controlling Officers.Up to Rs. 180 for each machine and subject to the Rules in Chapter 12 of the Printing and Stationary Manual (Fourth Edition).

Serial NoNature of power       To whom delegatedExtent1234To sanction purchase of bicycles for the use of their own offices, as well as for certain subordinate offices.     Head of DepartmentsBicycles may be provided for the use of office messengers employed in district headquarters offices, in Settlement Offices, in the Offices of Head of Departments and in headquarter offices subordinate to heads of departments in cases where their supply is rendered clearly necessary by the requirements of public business, provided.
(1) That not more than one bicycle shall not be used for private purposes;
(2) That Government bicycles shall not be used for private purposes;
(3) That bicycles shall be of the type adopted for Government offices. (The price of those bicycles in notified from time to time by Government); and
(4) That before sanctioning any such purchase the sanction in authority should consider whether, in view of the saving of time effected by the use of bicycles, a simultaneous reduction cannot be made in the inferior establishment of the office concerned, and ordinarily the purpose should not be allowed unless such a reduction is effected.To sanction purchase of periodicals and newspapers required for official use.Head of Departments and Controlling Officers.Without limit, subject to budget provision.To sanction purchase of Books and maps.Head of Departments and Controlling Officers.Without restriction.To sanction the purchase of stylographic and fountain pens in the local markets.Controlling OfficersFull powers, subject to the condition that pens are or chased only for the use of Stenographers.
Serial NoNature of power       To whom delegatedExtent1234To sanction employment of local agency for purposes of book binding in all cases in which the papers to be bound, e.g.. like settlement and annual records, are such as ought not to be bound otherwise than under the supervision of an official of the land Records Staff,(2) the papers are such that, owing to the constant need for reference, they cannot without great inconvenience be spared out of the office for the time which a jail Press or the Government Press would ordinarily occupy in doing the work, and (3) cases in which railway freight to and from Lahore plus cost of binding will amount to more than local binding charges.      Head of Offices- • •Full powers subject to the condition and terms laid down in paragraph 9.5 of the Punjab printing and Stationery Manual (Fourth Edition).To sanction expenditure in emergent cases on account of binding works executed locally.(i)Head of Departments and Superintending and Engineer’ s Buildings and Roads Department.
(ii)Executive Engineers.Up to a limit of Rs. 10 in each case.
Up to a limit of Rs. 5 in each case and subject to total expenditure of Rs.50 in any one financial year.To sanction small monthly payments to menials and inferior servants for supplying drinking water for dusting offices or for other purposes of a like nature.Head of Departments.Subject to the following conditions:-
(a) That the payments are of a purely contingent character, are drawn on contingent bills and may be withdrawn at any time at the discretions of the Head of department.
(b) That the allowance will not count for leave allowances or pension; and

Serial NoNature of powerTo whom delegatedExtent1234(c ) that in the case of menials or inferior servants already in permanent employment in receipt of monthly rate of pay the payment must one exceed a sum of Rs.2 a month in any one case further the scanting authority must in sanctioning any such pay mints record his reasons therefore and must satisfy himself.
1. That the work to be
done is really necessary
2. That it is outside the
regular duties of a menials or inferior servant on the permanent establishment and
3. That the grate of the
extra allowance to any such menial or inferior servant is distinctly more economical that the employment of fresh agencyTo sanction the renting of office accommodation for superintending engineers superintendents of works executive engineers sub- divisional officersSuperintending EngineersUp to a maximum of Rs.100 per menses in case of superintending engineers superintending of works and Executive engineers and to a maximum of Rs.30 per menses in case divisional officers and subject to the production of a non accommodation certificate as required by note 3 under 3.10 of buildings and roads department code and to the further provision that no lease is entered into for a period of more that one year.
     [CHAP. II	ANNEXURE- A
Serial NoNature of power  To whom delegatedExtent1234     2. When it is provided in the
building in which the government resides
a) If he happens to the an Executive Engineer in charge of a division or a Superintendent of works or
b) If he happens to be a sub Divisional officerSuperintending Engineers
Superintending
EngineersUp to Rs.30 a month and in special cases up to a maximum of Rs. 45 per mansem but in no case must the rent paid by government exceed half the rent of the whole house and subject other conditions noted against clause (I ) above
A fair proportion of the rent may paid by government up to a maximum of rs 20 per mensem is sub ject to other conditions noted against clause (I) above106To purchase in the local market articles of stationery required for the use of students apprentices or candidates for admission to the institutionPrincipal the Punjab collage of Engineering and technology Lahore and principal govt school of engineering Punjab resultFull powers107To sanction replacement of unserviceable bicycle originally purchased with the sanction of the chief engineerSuperintending
Engineers	buildings
and roads department principal of the Punjab collage of engineering technology	Lahore
and	principal
government school of engineering	Punjab
result.Subject to the fowling conditions
(I ) that the bicycle has become unserviceable by fair wear and tear and has been in use for not less than 10 years
(2 ) that the cost will be met form the front for contingencies at the disposal of the office where the bicycle is to be replaced and
(3) that bicycles to the purchased are of the type approved for government offices ( the price of these bicycles is notified from time to time by government).108To grant a fixed monthly allowance on account of kerosine oil use for per forming duties at nightHead of offices in the Buildings and Roads DepartmentUp to the following limits :-
(i) Treasury Guards Rs. 1 to Rs 9.

     ANNEXURE- A	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[CHAP. II
Serial NoNature of powerTo whom delegatedExtent1234(11) Chowkidars As 8 to Rs.2
(12) Gauge reader as 8 to Rs. 1
a) No allowance will be granted to treasury guards at places where electric light is provided
b) The rate in each case will be fixed according to the locality and the amounting of work required to be done
c) Wherever it can be conveniently arranged oil should be supplies in kind in preference to case allowance   110To sanction purchase of books of reference1. Executive Engineering charge of Division
2.	The principal
engineering school resultOnly one or two copies of time and fair tables and goods tariff of north western railway
Up to Rs.20 excluding postage for each purchase subject to the following conditions
      1.	That the grant for office
contingencies is not exceeded
      2.	That the total expenditure
in any one finical year dose not exceed Rs.50   112To sanction purchase of booksExecutive EngineersFull powers subject to budget provision   113To sanction expenditure on the making of any model for which no specific estimate of the work has been sanctionedConsulting Architect to Government PunjabUp to a limit of Rs. 50 of any one model
Serial NoNature of power  To whom delegatedExtent1234114To sanction the supply of liveries and warm clothing to the regular menial staff employed on boat bridgesSuperintending Engineers buildings and roads branchTo the extent	of the provision for
liveries and warm clothing existing in the sanctioned maintenance estimate for the boat bridge concerned and provided that the maximum cost of each livery and warm clotting dose not exceed Rs.
15 and Rs.13 respectively and that the former is supplied annually and the latter every two years116To sanction purchase of ferro- chemicalsSuperintending engineersUp to an annual limit of Rs. 75 only for each ferroprinting officeNote No. 1 in the public works Department powers are delegated to executive engineers who are selected for higher powers according to their length of service in the following manner:-
        Officers of over 16 years service
        Officers from 12 to 16 years service
        Officers of under 12 years service
Note No.2 -note I above does not apply to members of the provincial service of Engineers (Assistant Engineers ) such officers when appointed to decisional charge shall in the absence of special orders in any individual case exercise the powers of selected officers under 12 years services
ANNEXURE ‘B‘ TO CHAPTER II BUILDINGS AND ROADS DEPARTMENT CODE
Reference paragraph 2.2 and 213)
DELEGATION OF POWERS UNDER FINANCIAL RULES AND
POWERS OF RE. APPROPRIATION
(FINANCE DEPARTMENT LETTER NO FD.SOI (FR)-16/59, DATED
12TH JANUARY 1959).
            Pending the framing of Financial Rules for West Pakistan the Financial Rules in force in the integrating units on the appointed date, shall continue to remain In force in the areas in question, provided that the offices the headquarters of which are located in the areas formerly comprised within the states indicated below, will be government by the Rules of the integrating units shown against each:-
Khairpur State		Sind.
Bahawalpur State...	Punjab.
Baluchistan States Union. ..	Baluchistan.
2. In these orders, powers have been delegated to the Communications and Works Department, Chief Engineer and officers of the Buildings and Roads Department falling in the three categories as indicated ha Appendix ‘B‘.
      The nature and extent of the powers delegated is shown in Appendix (A)
3. These delegations are in supersession of all previous delegations of powers in respect of the Items specifically mentioned in Appendix — A”.
4. Powers, which are not specifically mentioned in Appendix —A” and which were delegated to various officers in the integrating units, immediately before the 14th October, 1955, shall, however, to be exercised by the corresponding officers of the West Pakistan Government, provided that in the offices located in. the areas which formerly pertained to the States referred to in paragraph 2 above, the officers will exercise the powers delegated to corresponding officers in the integrating units, indicated opposite each. Where the jurisdiction of an officer extends to the area,	which	includes	whole
or part of two or more integrating units, he will exercise within the area of each integrating unit such powers as stood originally delegated to corresponding officers within that area provided that the powers delegated to the Chief Engineers of the various provinces will now be exercised by the Regional Additional Chief Engineers in the areas in question.
5. The powers delegated to various offices immediately before 14th October 1955 are detailed in statement following Appendix ‘B‘ to this annexure.
APPENDIX —A”
              The Communications and Works Deportment will have full powers to issue orders creating posts provided (i) Budget provision exists, and (ii) post-to be created is specifically shown in the Budgets. The creation of the posts will be for the period for which provision has been made in the Budget a shorter period. Chief Engineer and Officers in Category I, will have the same powers in respect of Class II	and	subordinate	services	posts.
              Where no detailed Budget provision exists but there is merely a lump sum provision, or a lump sum allocation of funds has been made or savings are secured by permanent retrenchment of sanctioned establishment which has been in existence for a period of not less than one year, the Communications and Works Department, and the Chief Engineer may create temporary Class II and nongazetted posts for a period not exceeding six months. Officials in Category I may create non-gazetted posts of which the maximum of the pay scale is less than Rs. 150 per mensem for the same period. -
              The Communication and Works Department will have full powers for abolition of temporary posts under their control. The Chief Engineer may abolish all Class II and non-gazetted posts and officers in category I, non-gazetted posts, the maximum of the pay scale of which is less than Es. 150 Per mensem.
              All orders regarding creation and abolition of. Posts passed by the Communications and Works Department or by the Chief Engineer and other Officers in exercise of the delegation should be communicated to Audit and copies endorsed to Finance Department.
11-SANCTIONING EXPENDITURE DEBATABLE TO CONTINGENCIES
       A. The powers of Communications and Works Department, Chief Engineer and other
officers to sanction contingent expenditure which is exhibited in Budget Estimates in detail are indicated below:
Communication & Works Department .	Full powers
Chief Engineer	Full powers
Officers in Category I	Each item not exceed	in	Rs. 1,	000.
Officers in Category II	Each item not exceeding Rs.1,	000
Officers in Category III	Each item not exceed	in	Rs.200
B. Where, however, lump sum Budget provision or allocation of funds exists and individual items
       are not specified in detail, powers to sanction expenditure are indicated below:-
A-OFFICER REQUIREMENTS
  (i) Local purchase of stationery
 Communication & Works Department
 Local	purchase	of	Stationery:
Communication & Works Departmentprovided the controlledCommunication & Works DepartmentRs.500 at a timeProvincial Stationer office Lahore and or Superintendent Manager of the Regional Government	press	has
certified that stationery in question con not be supplied from the government storesChief EngineerRs.500 at a timeOfficers in Category IRs.200 at a timeOfficers in Category IIRs.50 at a time

[APPENDICES]	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE [CHAP. II
(ii) Addition to or repairs of instruments and furniture:-
   Communications and Works Department	Full powers.
Chief Engineer. .
Officers in Category I.
Officers in Category II.
Officers in Category III.
(iii) Hire charges of furniture‘s
Communications and Works Department Chief Engineer.
Officers in Category I
Officers in Category II
Officers in Category III.
      Hiring of furniture should be avoided. The delegations are meant to cover the period till furniture is purchased.
      (iv) Expenditure on carnage of records—Communications and Works Department, Chief Engineer and all officers shown In Appendix “B” will have fall powers.
      (v) Expenditure on rents of non residential buildings subject to certifies by the Executive Engineer concerned that the rent is reasonable:- Communications and Works Department ..	Full powers
Chief Engineer.	Full powers
Officers in Category I	Rs 1,000 per annum In each case.
Officers in Category ll	Rs. 500 per annum in each case.
      (vi) Appointment of Class IV establishment chargeable to contingencies subject to the condition that the pay of the establishment does not exceed pay Sanctioned for compamble regular establishment Communications and Works Department, Chief Engineer and Officers shown in Appendix “B” will have full powers.
      (vii) Freight charges for movement of Government belongings- Communications and Works Department Chief Engineer and officer shown in Appendix “B” will have full powers.
      (viii) Electricity and water charges and taxes-Communications and Works Department. Chief Engineer and officers shown in Appendix “B” will have full powers.
      (ix) Posts and Telegraphic charges other than those for installation of residential telephones-Communications and Works Department, Chief Engineer and officers shown In Appendix “B‘ will have full powers.
      Office telephones may not be sanctioned by officers below Category I Residential telephones may not. Be sanctioned without reference to Finance Department.


(a) Service postage:-
Communications and Works Department - Chief Engineer.
Officers in Category I
Officers in Category ll 	
Officers in Category III	
(xi) Hot and cold weather charges-Full powers subject to the full rules existing in various Regions.
(xii) Purchase of liveries, typewriter and bicycle—As per rules In various
(xiii) Charges for printing at presses other than Government Press Communications and
Works Department        Re. 200 in each case.Chief Engineer	
Officers In Category I	
Officers in Category II	        Ra 100 in each case.
        Ra. 50 In each case.
        Rs. 25 In each case.
       Reasons should be recorded why the job could not be done at Government, Press
      (xiv) Copying and translation charges -Full powers to Communications and Works Department. Chief Engineer and all Officers in Categories I and II, subject to rates sanctioned from time to time.
      (xv) Charges for remittances of pay or allowances of establishment by manes. order— Full powers to Communications and Works Department and all officers.
B-REWARDS AN]) BONUS
      Till Government policy regarding grant of rewards and bonus is determined afresh, the poll y that was being followed in this respect in the various areas prior to the appointed day, should be continued.
      Where the Budget provision exists and granting of rewards I. permissible under the Rules pertaining to the area in question the various authorities will have the powers to sanction rewards as Indicated below
      In Individual cases-
      Communications and Works	Department	Rs. 1,000
       Chief Engineer		Rs.500
      Official Category l ..	Rs 250
C-LAW CHARGES
      Detailed rules were laid down by the Government and Administrations of the Integrating unite regarding Incurring of expenditure on minal cases and civil suite, undertaking defense of cases against Government or incurred by Government servants and reimbursement of expenditure, incurred by Government servants on defending themselves when they are exonerated. ‘The Communications and Works Department will have full powers to Incur expenditure in respect of law charges In accordance with the rules laid down. Other Officers will have the powers to sanction law charges covered by the rules to the extent indicated below:-
Up to Re. 2,000 in each case.
Up to Re. 1,000 in each case

[APPENDICES)	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT	CODE-II
Any cases not covered by the Rules should invariably be referred to the Finance Department.
D-CEREMONIAL FUNCTIONS AND STATE ESTABLISHMENT
Subject to the existence of specific budget provision or allocation of funds, Communications and Works Department and Chief Engineer may incur such expenditure on ceremonial functions to the extent indicated below:-
      Communications & Works Department .. Rs. 1,000 in each case. -
      Chief Engineer..	Rs. 500 in each case
Subject to the existence of budget provision or allocation of funds Chief Secretary will have the powers to sanction expenditure on State entertainment not exceeding Rs. 1.000 in each case. E-PAYMENT OF FEES, HONORARIA AND COMPENSATIONS.
      The rites at which fee sate to be paid to Law officers and private pleader. Engaged for Government work has been laid down for various areas.
      The Communications and Works Department, Chief Engineer and officers included in Category I will have full powers to pay the fees in accordance with the rates own, provided that the total expenditure Incurred in cured on a case is within their powers of sanction. Th. Law Department or the Communications and Works Department in consultation with the law Department may sanction fees up to 20 per cent above the fixed rates in particularly important cases.
      In cases other than those pertaining to law Officers and private Pleaders, the Communications and Works Department and other Officers are empowered to sanction payment of fees to the extent indicated below :-
Honoraria and fees to personnel in connection ‘with departmental examinations in accordance
with a scale laid down by Government Communications and Works Department .. Chief Engineer
Officers in Category I ..
officers in II..
Fees In other oases
Communications and Works Department.. Chief Engineer.. Be. 100 In each case Officers in Category I	
      In case of compensations payable to any individual under the Law or Rules, the Communications and Works Department will have full powers to sanction payment of compensation in consultation with the law Department wherever necessary. Other officers will have the following powers Chief Engineer. -. ..
Officers in Category I .. .
Officers in Category ll 	

APPENDIX A
      in case of compensations payable to any individual under the law or Rules, the Communications and Works Department will have full powers to sanction payment of compensation in consultation with the Law Department wherever necessary. Other officers will have the following powers:-
Chief Engineer	,
Officers in Category I 	
Officers in Category II 	
F-PAYMENT OF SCHOLARSHIPS
      Scholarships will continue to be paid in accordance with the existing Rules applicable to the various areas, subject to budget provision, the number of scholarships will be determined by the Communications and Works Department. The^ payment of scholarships to individual scholars will be authorized by the Chief Engineer within the number sanctioned by the Communications and Works Department.
G-GRANTS-IN-AID
      Subject to the budget provisions, the Communications and Works Department will have full powers in accordance with the Rules. All cases not covered by the Rules may be referred to the Finance Department.
H-OTHER ITEMS
(i) Non-recurring items-
Communications and Works Department.
Chief Engineer..
Officer in Category I 	
Officers in Category II .. .
Officers in Category III -
(ii) Recurring items—
Communications and Works Department
Chief Engineer ..
Officer in Category I 	
Officers in Category II..
Officers Category llI ..
Expenditure under —Other items”, - may. be incurred only on objects, which are necessary for the technical working of the Department and are within the allotment sanctioned by competent authority. No expenditure, which is novel or doubtful in character, may be incurred from contingencies except with the prior sanction of Government.
III—POWERS IN RESPECT OF WORKS, STOCKS, TOOLS AND PLANTS
A-Powers	of	Administrative	Approval
      The Communications and Works Department and various officers will have the powers to grant administrative approval to construction of buildings to the extent indicated below

APPENDICES]	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT	CODE -II
 Communications and Works department.      Rs.1 Lakh Chief Engineers      Rs.20,000 Additional Chief Engineer/Deputy      Rs. 5,000. Chief Engineers.
      The Communications and Works Department Chief Engineer and the Additional Chief Engineer/Deputy Chief Engineers, Buildings and Roads Branch will have the following powers in respect of according administrative approval to original works of roads :—
 Communications and Works Department	Rs. 5 lakhs.
 Chief Engineer	Rs. 2 lakhs
 Additional Chief Engineers	Rs. 1 lakh.
B—Powers or Technical Sanction
The powers of technical sanction of the Communication & Works Department chief Engineer the Additional Chief Engineers will be as under:-
 In case or original Works-
Communication & Works DepartmentWorks up to Its. 500 lacs provided the excess over the amount for which the work has been administratively approved does not exceed 10 per cent of Rs. 20.000 whichever is more and full powers if the excess does not exceed 5 per centChief EngineerWorks	up	to	Es.	100	lace	pro:
vided the excess over the amount for which administrative approval has been accord eddoes not exceed 10 per cent or Re. 10,000 whichever is more and fail powers in came the excess does not exceed	5	per cent.Additional Chief EngineersWorks up to .Rs.25 lacs pro’ vided the excess over	the	amount	for	which	‘the
-work has been administratively approved does not exceed 5 per cent or Es. 5,000 which ever is	more.Superintending EngineersRs. one lakh subject to the con’ edition - that the excess over the amount for which the work has been administrative approval does not exceed 5 per cent.
APPENDIX A
Rs. 25,000 subject to the condition that the excess over the amount for which the work has been administratively approved does not exceed 5 per cent.
C—Accounts of Tenders
Power regarding acceptance of tenders are indicated below:-
Communications and Works Department..	Full powers.
Chief Engineer ..	Full powers.
Additional Chief Engineer..	Full Powers.
Superintending Engineers:	Full powers.
Executive Engineers..	Rs.50,000.
      Provided that the estimate	is	technically sanctioned and tendered perinea are same or less
than	that	provided	in	estimate.
      The above powers are subject to the condition that normal procedure laid down for invitation of tenders is followed and the rates quoted are such that total cost of the project will not exceed the amounts for which the works are administratively approved by more limit, laid down in the preceding paragraph. Further where competitive tenders are to be invited under the rules in case the lowest tender from an approved contractor is not accepted, the case should be submitted to the Communications and Works Department if the value of the tender is more than one lakh and should also be shown to the Finance Department if the value of the tender exceeds Rs, 5 lakhs. The above powers are also subject to the condition that the amount of any tender does	not	exceed	the	estimate	by	5	per	cent.
D-WORK-CHARGED ESTABLISHMENT
      The Communication and Works Department will have full powers regarding the appointment of work-charged establishment. The Chief Engineer, Additional Chief. Engineers, Superintending Engineers and Executive Engineers will have the powers to appoint work- charged establishment on salaries up to Rs. 750, Rs. 500, Re. 250 and Re. 100 per mensem, respectively. This power is subject to the existence of the provision in the sanctioned estimates and should be exercised only when the orders to comedic the work has been received. The pay allowed to this work-charged reestablishment should not exceed that allowed to regular establishment	of	the	same	category.
E-Stokes
      The Communications and Works Department, Chief Engineer and Additional Chief Engineer will have the powers to sanction fixation of stoke limits of various Divisions to the maximum extent indicated below:-
Communications and Works Department Chief Engineer- ..
Additional Chief Engineer -Full powers. Rs. 10 lakes. Rs. 5 lakes
[APPENDICES]	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE Chap. II
They will also have powers to decrease any stock limits both temporarily and permanently. - F—Toots AND PLANT PURCHASE OF
      The powers in respect of sanctioning Tools and Plant will be asunder:
      Communications and Works Department.. Rs.	2 lakhs.
       Chief Engineer		Rs.	1 lath.
      Additional Chief Engineer		Rs.	50,000.
       Superintending Engineers		Rs	2,000.
       Executive Engineers 		Rs.	5,00.
       Special
      Communications and Works Department .. Rs. 4 lakhs
       Chief Engineer	Rs 2 lakhs. :
       Additional Chief Engineers ..	Rs. 1 lakhs.
Subject to the budget provision.
IV-POWERS OF RE-APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS
A POWERS OF COMMUNICATION WORKS DEPARTMENT AND HIGH COMMISSIONERS FOR PAKISTAN
      The procedure in respect of re-appropriation will be regulated in accordance with ‘the provisions of the Punjab Budget Manual. However, subject to conditions laid down in paragraph 14.4 and 14.5 and 14.7(i) of the Budget Manual, the Communications and Works Department will have the powers to re-appropriate funds within a grant between two minor heads or subordinate item under the same major head in respect of both Voted and Charged - at Expenditure. The High Commissioner for Pakistan will have the same powers in respect of —Charges in England.
B—POWERS OF CHIEF ENGINEER
      The Chief Engineer will have the powers to re-appropriate funds between two Units of appropriation under the same minor head subject to the conditions mentioned in the above paragraph	and	subject	to	the	further	restriction	that
   (i)	Saving from “Pay of Officers” will not be re-appropriated- to other classes of
expenditure	;	and	-
   (ii)	Re-appropriations shall not be made to increase a contract grant or a provision for
Travelling	Allowance;
 Provided that the lump sum provision made for meeting un-expected charges under —Pay of Officers” and —Establishment” may be re-appropriated by the Chief Engineer between two or more minor heads. under the same major head.
A—HOUSE AND OTHER GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS AND LAND APPURTENANT to them
(i) Power to dismantle and sell unserviceable buildings
Communications and Works Department -‘ Up to Rs.1 Lakh

Chief Engineer
Additional Chief Engineers
ii) leases of land pertaining to Government building:-..
Communications and Works Deptt:
Chief Engineer
Additional Chief Engineer
iii) leases of surplus buildings :-
Communications and Works Deptt:
Chief Engineer
Additional Chief Engineer (iv)leases of fruit threes and sale of grass growing on government land:-
Communications and Works Deptt Chief	Full powers
Engineers and Additional Chief
Engineer for a period of not more than one year and by open auction.
B—DISPOSAL SURPLUS STORIES
Power to declare stores surplus or unserviceable:-
Communications & Works Department	..	Rs. I Lakh.
Chief Engineer	Rs ,5000
Additional Chief Engineer	Rs.25,000
Power to sell surplus or unserviceable stores and stock at book value or market value whichever is grater or by auction:-
Communications and Works	Department.,	Full powers
Chief Engineer‘s	Full powers
Chief Engineer and Additional	Up to Rs. 1 Lakh
Officer in category II	Up to Rs. 25,000
Note -Amounts indicated above refer to under recited book value
IV-Refers, remissions and suspension of revenue and write offs
Communication & Works Department chief Engineer and Additional Chief Engineers will have full powers to make any refunds of deposit which are clearly due in accordance with the rules the following powers are delegated in respect of refunds ordered by court in respect of which no appeal is proposed to be filed:-
Communications and Works Department., Chief Engineer
Chief Engineer and Additional

PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE CHAP. II
      Further, Communications and Works Department will have powers to refund revenues otherwise than as per rules laid down but not in relaxation of any rules to the extent of Rs. 2,000 in each case.
B—.SUSPENSION OF COLLECTION OF GOVERNMENT DUES
      Communications and Works Department Chief Engineer and Additional Chief Engineer /Deputy Chief Engineers and other officers may write off losses to the extent indicated below
   (i) Losses on account of negligence and fraud
Communications and Works department
Chief Engineer
   (ii) Losses otherwise than on account of negligence and fraud
Communications and Works department	Full powers
Chief engineer	Rs.5,000
Additional Chief Engineers /Deputy Chief Engineers	Rs.5,00
      VII— LOANS)	ADVANCES	TO	GOVERNMENT	SERVANTS
      Advances for construction of a house; purchase of a house or purchase of motor cars or motor-boats or other conveyance or for purchase of type- writers may be made in accordance with the rules by Communications and Works Department and Chief Engineer and Additional Engineer/Deputy Chief Engineers. This is subject to the availability of funds being certified ‘by he Audit Officer .concerned. Additional Chief Engineer/Deputy Chief Engineer may also subject to availability of funds, sanction advances for purchase motorcycle, cycle ponies and typewriters.
APPENDIX ‘B
CATEGORY I
Additional Chief Engineers.
Deputy Chief Engineers.
Principal, Government College of Engineering and Technology, Lahore.
Principal, N. E. P. Engineering College, Karachi.
                  CATEGORY II Superintending Engineers.
CATEGORIES III
Executive Engineers.
Principal, Engineering Schools, Rasa.
      All other Disbursing and Estimating Officers of the Buildings and Roads Department other than the Chief Engineer and the officer indicated in Categories I and Il above.
ANNEXURE ‘C’
PART-I
(Refereed to in rule 2.81 of buildings and roads Department code)
Rules for the payment of compensation for land taken up under the Land A
acquisition Act, 1 of 1894, as adapted for Pakistan -
Note -The term act as used in this Appendix, mesas Land Acquisition
Act, 3, of 1894, as adopted for Pakistan)
Land Acquisition Officers.—
      1. After all preliminaries in respect to estimates, etc., that may be required under departmental rules in force for the time being have been duly carried out, the land will be taken up under the Act either by the Collected or by some special officer who is placed at the disposal of the Buildings and Roads Department, and invested with the powers of the Collector under the Act.
      Procedure of Special Officer appointed under the Act.—
      2. The procedure for the drawl of money from treasuries by special officers is prescribed in Subsidiary ‘Treasury Rule 4.64 and for the disbursement of money in the following rules
      3. When an award is made under section II of the Act, the office shall have a statement prepared in the appended Form A showing the amount payable to each person under the award, and shall, on the day the award is made, forward a copy of the statement, signed by himself, to the Accountant General. Before signing the copy, the officer should carefully satisfy himself that it correctly shows the amounts due under the award and should him self enter the total of column 6 of the statement in words both in the original and copy. A subsidiary statement in Form AA giving particulars regarding the acceptance, by the persons concerned, of the amounts entered in column 6- of the award statement should also be furnished to the Director Audit and Accounts (Works), that the a ward is made, the necessary entries in column 7 of statement A will be made In the Director‘s office on receipt of the statement in Form AA.
      4. In cases where an award has been made by a Court under section 26 of the Act, a second award statement should be prepared in the accompanying Form B by the Land Acquisition Officer as soon as the decision of the Court is ascertained and a copy thereof forwarded to the Director Audit and Accounts (Works). On receipt of this statement, the Director Audit and Accounts (Works) will proceed to check the entries in columns 1 to 4 with the original award	by	the	officer.
Note—Unless there be something repugnant in the subject or context the rule-given in this appendix for the acquisition of lend for the Buildings and Roads Department apply mutes mutatis	mutandis	to	other	departments	of	Government	also.
      5. Any change In the apportionment of the officers award made by a Court under section 30 of the Act, should also similarly be communicated to the Director Audit and Accounts (Works) for necessary corrections in the award statement. And if under section 31 (3) of the Act, it has been arranged to grant a compensation otherwise than in each, the nature of such compensation should be clearly specified in the column of remarks in the award statement.
ANNEXURE PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[CHAP. II
6. In giving notice of the award under section 12 (2) and tendering payment under section 31 (1) to such of the persons interested as were not present personally or by their representatives when the award was made, the officer shall require them to appear personally or by representatives, by a certain date, to receive payment of the ‘compensation awarded to them, intimating also that no interest will be allowed to them if they fail to appear. If they do not appear and do not apply for a reference to the Civil court under section 18, the officer shall, after any further Endeavour to secure their attendance that may seem desirable, cause the amounts due to be paid in the treasury as revenue deposits payable to the persons to whom they are respectively due, and vouched for in the accompanying Form E. The Officer shall also give notice to the payees of such deposits, specifying the treasury in which the deposits have been made. In the Collection‘s accounts the amounts deposited in the treasury will at once be charged off‘ as public works expenditure and when the persons interested under the award ultimately claim payment, the amounts will be paid to them in the same manner as ordinary revenue deposits. The officer should, as far as possible, arrange to make the payments due in or near the village to which the payees belong, in order that the number of undisbursed sums to be placed in deposit on account of non-attendance may be reduced to a minimum. Whenever payment is claimed through a representative, whether before or after deposit of the amount awarded, such representative must show legal authority for receiving the compensation on behalf of his principal.
      Note —In the case of petty payments if the payers do not appear on the day fixed for payment and do not apply for a reference to the Civil Court under section 18, the office shall issue notice to them informing them that if they do not attend by a certain data, the compensation awarded them-will be remitted by money order, the amount of the money order fee being deducted. The following rules must be observed in making payment by money order-
(i) No sums exceeding Re. 50 in each separate case may be paid by money order.
(ii) No compensation due on account of lend which is owned jointly by the proprietors of a village or sub-Division of a village may be paid by money order.
(iii) in each money order so issued, the purpose of the remittance should be briefly stated in the acknowledgment portion thereof in continuation of the printed entry —Received the sum specified above on —sufficient space being left below the manuscript entry thus made for the signature or thumb-impression of the payee. -
On receipt of the money order acknowledgment duly signed by the payee. it should be attached to the usual receipt in Form C (See Rule 7) In which the full amount of the compensation and the deduction made there from on account of the money order fee should be clearly shown: the receipt will then be disposed of in the usual way. - - (iv) For the word, —paid in my presence by cash” in form C, the words —paid by-cheque”
by money order” shall be substituted.
The Director Audit and Accounts (Works) will accept, in the case of compensation paid by money order, a receipt for the amount entered in the award statement less the amount of the money order fee as a valid receipt f or the full amount entered in the award statement.
      7. in making direct payment-s to the persons interested under the award the officer shall take the receipt of each person to whom money is paid on


      Separate voucher in the accompanying Form C, containing a reference to the item showing the amount due to that person in the award statement. In case where payments are made to a number of persons under a single award, acquaintance roll in Form C C may be substituted for separate receipts in Form C. The office shall forward the separate receipts of the^ payees or the acquaintance roll, as the case may be, to the Director Audit and Accounts (Work when forwarding to him the account of the month in which the payments are made.
8. . All payments into court for deposit under the Act should be made by means of cheque in
favour of the presiding officer of the court, payable by order of the court to credit of civil court deposits.
      The cheques should be accompanied with receipts, in triplicate, in Form D, duly filled up, of which one will be retained by the Court for record and the other two returned duly signed to the collector, who will keep one copy and forward the other to the Director Audit and Accounts (Works) with the accounts of the month In which the payments sire made. The amounts deposited in the court will be charged off expenditure in the public works accounts of the collector and the ultimate payments to the persons interest under the a ward shall be arranged for the court under the rules for the payment of civil court as payments are made .The amount deposited in the court will be charge of as expenditure in the public works accounts of the collector and the ultimate payments to the persons interested under the a ward shall be arranged for by the court under the rules for the payment of civil court deposits.
9. . When a Court has awarded any compensation in excess of the officers award the further
payment due, as entered in Colum 6 of the award statement in from B should be made into the court by means of cheque and the procedure descried in the preceding paragraph should be followed From D being used with the necessary changes to give full particulars of the orders of the Court.
10. For payments to the persons interested by cheques instead of by cash. See note below subsidiary treasury Rule 4.64.
      Payment under the Act after the special officer is relieved of his special duties. 11. in any case in which a reference is made to the civil court and the award of the court is not made till after the special officer has bed relived of his special duties, the further payments due under the award shall be made by the Collector, who will observe the same procedure as If the reference to the Civil court had been made by himself, as prescribed in rules 8 and 9 above.
      Procedure of Collector or other Civil Officer not specially employed for land acquisitions.
12. When the land is taken up by the Collector or other Civil Officer not specially employed for the work such collector or Civil officer Is not Public Works disburser, but draws money for payment due under his award from the Tnasury -vide subsidiary Treasury Rule 4.65 et seq. Such Collector or Civil officer shall, as soon as he makes the award, or as soon as he ascertains that an award has been made by the civil Court prepare and statement in Form A or B or in both, as the case may be, showing the amounts due and forward a copy thereof to the Director Audit and Accounts (Works) In the manner prescribed in the_rules 3 and 4. Additions and alternations in the award statement in the should also be communicated to the Director Audit and Accounts (Works) as prescribed In rule 5, and a subsidiary statement In Form AA
[ANNEXURE]	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[Chap-II)
Should, if necessary, be furnished as laid down in rule 3. The procedure laid down in rule 5 should be observed by such Collector or Civil Officers.
13. The rules regulating the drawal and disbursement of money by the Collector or other Civil Officer including the drawl of advances are contained in Subsidiary Treasury Rules 4.66 and 4.67.
Note- Advance should be drawn only in very exceptional circumstances to be noted in the voucher on which the advance is drawn, and the undisbursed portion of the advance should be placed in Revenue Deposit as soon as the date fixed for making payment is over.
14. The receipts in Form C taken from the persons to whom payments are made (vide Subsidiary Treasury Rule 4.66) shall be forwarded by the Treasury Officer with the accounts of the month to the Director Audit and Accounts (Works), For payments into Civil Courts the procedure laid in rules 8 and 9 should be observed.
15. Cost of Pleader‘s fee in civil suite arising out of acquisition proceeding should be charged to the same head as the cost of the acquisitions. Department for, which land is being acquired ought to meet the cost of Pleader‘s fees forming part of charges for civil suits arising our of land and debited to the department for which the land is acquired.
16. Any special charges incurred in connection with the acquisition of land on account of establishment and contingencies, etc., should be treated as an Integral part of the cost of the land and debited to the department for which the land is acquired.
      (b)	Where one department makes payment or renders service as an agent of another
department of the same Government, the principal department may, subject to such monetary limit as may be fixed by Government In this behalf, be charged with the expenditure Incurred on Its behalf by the agent department.
      Note I —The cost of land acquired by a civil department on behalf of the Buildings and Roads Department is debatable in the accounts of the latter as pert of the cost of the works for which the land is taken up; but when land is taken up for two or more service departments can jointly, the	coat is	wholly debatable	to the	department for which the major	portion of
expenditure	was	incurred, unless	there are special reasons to the contrary.
Note 2- when a special officer is employed for the acquisition of land for any department, the expenditure on pay, allowances, etc., of the special & officer arid his establishment and any expenditure on contingencies is debatable to that department as part of the cost of land. When the lend is taken up by a civil officer, not specially employed for the work, only special charges incurred In connection with the acquisition of the land on establishment, contingencies, etc., shall be borne by the department for which the land is a enquired .
(The Government have fixed Rs 50 as the monetary limit referred to in this direction AUDIT BY ACCOUNT OFFICERS
17. Whether the payment Is made by a special officer or by the Collector (or other Civil Officer) the audit of the Director Audit and Account (Work) shall Insist in seeing every payment Is supported by a receipt In Forms C, CC, 3) or E and that the amount paid on such receipt Is the amount payable under the award, as shown In the statement of which he will have received copies under the preceding orders. The Director Audit, and Account (works) will also not in the last column of Form a the date on which possession was taken as reported to him by the Executive Engineer or other officer .
18. The Director Audit and Account (Works) will, as he receives the vouchers, fill in the vouchers fill in the entries in the appropriate columns of the award state.
Chap. II	ANNEXURE
merits (forms A and B); and as he receives the reports of possession he will film the entries in column 10 of the statement in Form A: when all the vouchers showing either payment to the payee or payment into the Court as deposit and reports of possession have been received, he will forward the completed statements in Forms A, AA and 8 to the Chief Revenue Authority. This will complete the audit of the Director Audit and Account (Works); any other or further returns or reports from the officers who assess or pay compensation will be disposed of by the Chief Revenue Authority without reference to the Director Audit and Account (Works).
19. When the land is acquired for and the cost is debatable, to, any other Department than the Public Works Departments, the procedure will also be the same. Investment	of	Compensation	money	deposited	in	Court.
21. Investments under section 32 and 33 of the Act of money deposited in Court, should he arranged for, in the case of purchase of Government securities, in communication between the Court and the State Bank of Pakistan and purchase of land should be effected under the Court‘s orders through the Collector or other Revenue Authority. The Bank will inform the Court what sum should be remitted to enable it to make the investment, and this amount will be paid from the	deposits	in	Court.
Audit, adjustment and recovery of payments on behalf of bodies financially Independent	of	Government.
22. Payments made from a municipal fund or district fund or a small town or notified area fund	as	compensation	for	land	taken	up	under	the	Act,
• shall be made and audited by the Local Audit Department, in the same manner as if the land were being acquired for Government. The Collector or other officer who makes payments on account of the lend acquired shall draw funds from the Treasury and make payments in the manner laid down in these rules, using the forms prescribed in duplicate. one copy of the relevant record shall be sent to the Local Body concerned and the other copy to the Director Audit and Accounts (Works), West Pakistan. The municipality or other body will pay the estimated cost of the compensation to the credit of Government in advance on such dates and in such installments as the Government may direct, further payment to Government being required as soon as the Director Audit and Accounts (Works) reports that the payment made exceed the amount received in advance. The Director Audit and Accounts (Works) will deal with the accounts and payments as prescribed in these rules, debiting the payments against the advances received from the Municipality or other body.
      *These sums should be credited in the treasury accounts to a special deposit head under Civil Deposits.—‘Deposits for work done for public bodies or individuals.” All charges should be supported by the prescribed vouchers, unless these cannot be furnished at once in which case the Director, Audit and Accounts (Works) will place them under objection, tin the necessary vouchers have been obtained. If the awarding officer should at any time have in hand any sum in excess of his immediate requirements, he should repay it in to the Treasury for credit of the special deposit head; any balance of the sum originally credited which is not claimed at the expiration of a year from the date of the award will be paid into a civil court by the officer accordance with rule 8.

ANNEXURE) PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE CHAP-II
No and date of statement 	
Date of Award	
Name of work for which land has been acquired 	
No. and date of declaration in 		Gazette, Viz, No	dated 	page___
Statement showing compensation awarded by 		under section ___act 1 of 1994 as adapted for Pakistan to all the persons
interested in the plot of land situated in the village of ___ in estate __ no. the revenue roll of the District
    1    2    3    4    5    678    9   10Serial noNames of persons to whom payment is due under the awardArea of landAbatement of land revenueEvaluation of any buildings that may be taken upon the landTotal amount due to each person including the amount shown in column 5 the amount warded for the land interest costs and any other amounts due to the payee in connection with the acquisition of the landDistribution of the amount in column 5 taken from the subsidiary stamen AARemarksNumber and date of voucherDate on which passion of the land was handed over to the Department all authorities for whom it is acquiredAcresRs.A.PRs.A.PRs.A.P
*To be filled up in the accountant general‘s office
       Notes-( 1) each award statement should be confined to the lands to be taken under one declaration i.e the award given for lands acquired under more than one declaration should not be incorporated in one statement but as many separate submitted as there are declarations
       Note -(2) - Regarding column 7 see note to statement A.A
ANNEXURE)
A
Particulars regarding the acceptance by the persons concerned of amounts entered in Award Statement No.	
Dated 	
Nome of work for which land has been acquired 	
No. and date of declaration in 		Gazetted, Viz, no	dated	page	
123Serial No. in the statement of ward under section II of the ActName of person to	whom
payment is made under the awardPARTICULARS OF AMOUNT ENTERED IN COLUMNS 6 OF THE AWARD STATEMENTabcdAmount accepted without protestAmount accepted under protestAmount refused and the Court in which is depositedAmount undisbursed to non attendance and the treasury in which it is depositedRs,A.PRs.A.PRs.A.PRs.A.P*Note -In noting these particulars in the Award Statement it may be sufficient to enter the letter a,b,c,d in this statements
ANNEXURE)
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE
B
Number and date of statement 	
Name of work for which land has been acquired 	
Number and date of declaration in 		Gazette viz No. 	dated 	page	
STATEMENT SHOWING THE AMOUNT OF COMPENSATION AWARD BY THE COURT
OF 	UNDER SECTION 26 OF ACT 1 OF 1994 AS ADAPTED FOR PAKISTAN
   1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8Serial No. in the statement of ward under section II of the ActName	of
sons	to
whom payment	is
due under	theAmount originally awardedAmount made by Collector under the original awardTotal amount awarded by the CourtFurther payments dueRemarksNumber and date of voucherRS. A.PRS. A.PRS. A.PRS. A.PRS. A.PRS. A.P
*Note -In noting these particulars in the Award Statement it may be sufficient to enter the letter a,b,c,d in this statements
ANNEXURE)
       C	C
No. of vouchers 	
Name of work which the land has been acquired	
No, and date of declaration in	Gazette Viz ,No	
Dated	
Serial No.	in awarded statement no.
	date	
Name of payee
I	ofNo. of vouchers 	
Name of work which the land has been acquired	
No, and date of declaration in	Gazette Viz ,No	
Dated	
Serial No.	in awarded statement no.
	date	
Name of payee
I	ofTehsil	DistrictTehsil	DistrictDo hereby acknowledged to have received Rs.	
	on account of cost of land taken up by Government as detailed on reverse .
        Signature of payee	
        Locality
Note -The receipt should be in Urdu or in English but when the payee is unable to write in English or in Urdu he may give a receipt any other vernacularDo hereby acknowledged to have received Rs.	
	on account of cost of land taken up by Government as detailed on reverse .
        Signature of payee	
        Locality
Note -The receipt should be in Urdu or in English but when the payee is unable to write in English or in Urdu he may give a receipt any other vernacular
ANNEXURE--C)
CONSOLIDATED VOUCHER FOR PAYMENT MADE DURING 	19 IN ACCORDANCE WITH AWARD
    STATEMENT NO	 DATED 	 ON ACCOUNT OF LAND ACQUIRED FOR ___ IN THE DISTRACT OF ___
TEHSIL ___ MAUZA	
12345Serial No. in Award statementName of payeeArea of landAmount paidSignature of the payee and date of paymentTotalRs.A.PPaid in my presence in cash to the above persons the total sum of rupees 		*annas*	pies *	 only by cheque

Dated the 	19	in words	Signature of officer
PART-	II
TRANSFER OF	LANDS	BETWEEN THE CENTRAL AND
PROVINCIAL	GOVERNMENTS
(i)	STATUTORY	PROVISIONS
            Sections 127 and 176 of the Government of India Act, 1935, as adapted and modified for Pakistan , regulate the transfers of lands between the Central and Provincial Government.	These	are	reproduced	below	for	facility
of	reference:—	-
            127. The Federation may, if it deems it necessary to acquire any land Acquisition of land for situated in a Province for any purpose connected, Federal purposes. with a matter With respect to which the Federal Legislature has power to make laws, require the Province to acquire this land on behalf, and at the expense of the Federation or, if the land belonge to the Province, to transfer it to the Federation on such terms as may be agreed or, in default of agreement, as may be determined by an arbitrator appointed by the Chief Justice	of	Pakistan.
      175. (1) The executive authority of the Federation and of a Pro Power to acquire property Vince	shall	extend,	subject	to	any	act	of
and to make contracts, etc. appropriate Legislature, to the grant sale, disposition or mortgage of any	property	vested
in President for the purposes of the Government for the Federation or of the Province, as the case may be , and to the purchase or acquisition of property on behalf of President for these purposes respectively,	and	to	the	making	of	contracts	.
(2) All property acquired for the purposes of the Federation of a Province, as the case may be, shall	vest	in	President	for	those	purposes.
(3) All contracts made in the exercise of the executive authority of the Federation or of a Province shall be expressed to be made by the President or by the Governor of the Province, as the case may be, and all such contracts and all assurances of property made in the exercise of that authority shall be executed on behalf of the President of Governor by such persons and in such manner	as	he	may	direct	or	authorize.
      (4) Neither the President, nor the Governor of a Province, nor the Secretary of State, shall be personally liable in respect of any contract or assurance made or executed for the purpose of this Act, or for the purposes of the Government of India Act, or of any Act, repealed thereby, nor shall any person making or executing any such contract or assurance on behalf of any of them be personally	liable	in	respect	thereof.
(II)	SUBSIDIARY	PROVISIONS
      The Central Government have decided to apply the following principles in regard to certain subsidiary points, not covered by the statutory provisions:-
      (1) Acquisition of land for Federal purposes Section 127 of the Government of India Act, 1935 as adapted and modified for Pakistan, provide that when land belonging to a private party is required to be acquired on behalf of the Federation, the acquisition shall be at the expense of the Federation. In cases where the 1‘ and required to be transferred is in the occupation of the
ANNEXURES)	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE CHAP-II
Provincial Government, the amount payable by the Central Government will ordinarily be the market value of the land and buildings, if any, thereon; the capitalized value of the land revenue assessable thereon will be included m cases where the transfer of the land causes actual loss of land revenue to the Provincial Governments.
            (2) Continuance of first refusal to Provincial Governments of land that is surplus to the requirements bf the Central Government. When the Central Government no longer require land in their possession, the provincial Government of the province iii which it is situate will be given the option of assuming possession of the whole or any portion thereof, subject to the following conditions:—
(a) the Central Government themselves will be the judges of whether they require to retain any particular land or not;
(b) if the provincial Government desire to assume possession of the lands,
the option to do so should be exercised within six months of the date on which the Central Government signify	their intention of surrendering the land;
(c) the amount payable for the land will in all cases be the market value
of the land and building, if any, thereon, at the date of transfer; and
(d) when the Provincial Government desire to assume possession
of a only a portion of the land surrendered, they shall be entitled to do so only if the value of the land is not materially reduced by the division.
        (111) TRANSFERS AND LEASES AND MILITARY LANDS BY THE CENTRAL
GOVERNMENT TO PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENTS.
(a) For lands inside cantonments—The procedure will be as that prescribed in the cantonment Land Administration Rules for private individuals except that the leases will not be put upto auction, but will be granted by private treaty. In other words the Provincial Government requiring the land or some one on their behalf will apply for the lease of the land in the usual manner on the prescribed form to the cantonment Board or the Military Estates Officer concerned who will dispose of the application; in accordance with the rules in the manner referred to above. The lease will be executed on behalf of the Provincial Government by the proper authority, i.e. an authority duly authorized to do so.
(b) For lands outside cantonments—The procedure at (a) above, with necessary changes,
will be followed, a lease form prescribed in the cantonment Land Administration Rules being adapted for the purpose. If, however, the land out side a cantonment applied for by the Provincial Government ‘a not required for any prospective Military purpose, it should be permanently relinquished outright in the usual manner instead of being leased. -
(2) Provincial Government, are entitled to have alienations of land in their favour registered under the Registration Act (XVI) of 1908 as adapted.
     [CHAP. II)	ANNEXURE -C
For Pakistan. The Central Government prefer that all leases should be registered as a matter of principle even if registration is not compulsory under that Act as such a course appears to be in the interests of both the parties.
       (3) It has also been decided that a transfer of land from the Central Government to a Provincial Government should be carried out in the usual way, that is to say, by means of a conveyance in writing from the President of Pakistan to the Governor of the province concerned.. This procedure will apply to permanent transfers or relinquishments o land except statutory ones, i.e. except those transfers which are affected by some statutory provision and for which no conveyance	or	other	document	is	necessary.
      These instructions relate to lands in charge of the Defiance Department only and do not affect those belonging to other Departments of the Central Government.
Annexure “D”
( Prefer to paragraph 2.102 (3) of this Code)
Rule 19.9 of P.F.R Volume-I)
Serial
NaNature of powerDepartmentExtent to which assent is given    1234    1.To sanction expenditure form the lump sum provision under the head 50 civil works grants in aid for grants in aid to local bodies for grants in aid to local bodies for barges and metalled roads and for colony roadPublic works buildings and roads branchProvided that-
(I ) the expenditure is sanctioned for an object for which the lump sum grant is intended.
     (ii)	The amount of sanction
dose not exceed Rs.5.000 in each case    2To sanction expenditure from the lump sum prevision under the head 50 civil works grants in aid for grants in aid to new municipalities and notified areas in the colonies for utilization on works other than those mentioned in serial no.1 aboveDittoProvided that-
i) the expenditure is on an object for which the lump sum grant is intended
ii) the amount of sanction does not exceed Rs.50,000 in each case

Annexure “D”
( Prefer to paragraph 2.102 (3) of this Code)
Rule 19.9 of P.F.R Volume-I)
Serial
NaNature of powerDepartmentExtent to which assent is given    1234    15.To sanction grants in aid for water supply schemes for a village or group of villages costing Rs. one lakh or less from the lump sum provision the budget for the purpose.      Sanitary boardSubject to the conditions-
     a) That the grant in aid shall only
be given for water supply scheme of a village, or group of villages where there is no drinking water or where the supply is scant or where the water available is not fit for human consumption
     b) That the grant in aid shall not
exceed Rs.50,000 or 50 per cent of the estimated cost of the scheme whichever is less and no recurring commitments shall be made.
     c) That no grant aid shall be
made except to a district board or panchayat which shall undertake is responsibility for the maintenance of the scheme for which a grant -in- aid made and
     d) That the amount of a grant in
aid shall in variably be stated as a definite sum and not as percentage of the cost    19To sanction grants to local bodies in aid of approved schemesCommunications board or its successor agencyProvided the grant in aid does not exceed one lakh in any one case
CHAPTER- III
PUBLIC BUILDINGS
      introductory Nets (i)—The Rules In this Chapter are generally applicable to buildings maintained by the Buildings and Roads Department but they should be applied mutatis mutanis to any other department maintaining buildings departmentally.
 (ii) The term public or Government Buildings, as used in this chapter applies to buildings borne on the books of the buildings and roads department and maintained form the appropriation of r buildings and roads works Incharge of the building and roads department officers .
A-GENERAL
I-GENERAL RULES
 31. The Officer Incharge of each building should make some person of his establishment answerable for its general condition.
32. As a theatre is peculiarly liable to fire, no Government building in which stores or other Government property is kept should be used for theatrical purposes.
33. Insurance of Government buildings is not to be effected except, at the discretion of Government, in the case of specially valuable property liable to, special risks.
II—FIXTURES AND FURNITURE.
(a) FIXTURES AND FURNITURE
3.4. Every public building should be provided with all necessary fixtures. The periodical repair of these fixtures should be carried out by the B. & U . Department and charged
• to the repair estimate of the building. (All petty repairs of fixtures together with the purchase and repair of furniture
k- not comprehended and provided for originally should be paid for by the Department concerned and be charged in the contingent bill.)
      Note—(l) Subject to auth exception as may be authorized under clause 4 of paragraph 5.8, punkha Includes its suspending ropes, tubes, pulleys, Its poles board flaps, frill‘s and pulling ropes, and Thong., which will be supplied and maintained by Government, flaps being renewable at intervals of not lees than three years.
      Non—(2) Only portable heaters and water beaten which obtain their electric energy by means of a moveable plug in a socket In the wiring system shall be classified as furniture, other electric heaters or water heaters which are fixed to walls, floors or coiling of Government buildings	shall	be	classified	as	fixtures.
(b) Furniture
            3.5. The Divisional Officer will no€ supply nor repair furniture, screens, purdahs , or tattles, nor will he perform any of the duties specified above as devolving on the departmental officer	Incharge.	Furniture,	for	new	offices	may,	how
     149
ever, be supplied by the Divisional Officer and, charged in his accounts, provided Government authorizes the inclusion of the cost of such furniture in the estimates of the offices concerned; The repairs of such furniture will however be paid for by the department concerned.
             This rule does net apply to the case of furniture for dak bungalows, civil rest houses or circuit houses, the outlay on the supply and repair of which will be treated as charges of the Civil Department. In the case of Buildings and Roads Department rest houses and inspection bungalows, the furniture should be supplied and repaired at the cost of Buildings and Roads	Department.
            3.6. The Administration of the furniture grants of the official residences of the Governor, West Pakistan, including the upkeep of a stock list and the purchase, repair and maintenance of furniture, shall be conducted by the Military Secretary, who would furnish the Director, Audit and Accounts (Works), West Pakistan, with an annual certificate of verification in the form given in paragraph 81 below. During the second and fourth year of the incumbency of the Governor and at least once in every three years the certificate of edification should be countersigned by a Divisional Officer of the Buildings and Roads Department, in token of his joint	responsibility	for	the	actual	verification.
      37. When a building is newly constructed for the use of the Governor and supply of furniture is deemed necessary the cost of furniture should be debited to works but the cost of maintenance and renewal of furniture in the staff quarters should be met from the grant for the main and repairs of furnishings of official residences of the Governor under Allowances and Privileges	(Governors),	Order,	1952.
     Form	of	Certificate	of	verification
      Certified that all furniture in 	(name of the house)
 has been inspected and checked with stock lists ‘ maintained.
      I am satisfied (:3 that all new supplies up-to-date have been correctly brought on the stock lists, (Ii) that the stock lists are corrected in all respects, (ii) that the articles in stock agree with the stock lists, (iv) that the sale-proceeds have been properly accounted for, and (v) that sanction of com
Patent authority exists for writing of all articles struck of the stock lists.
      The proceeds of the sale of unserviceable furniture shall be credited to provincial Revenues.
3.8:	The Buildings and Roads Department is responsible for the supply and
maintenance of furniture in the
following Government residential Buildings:—
Chief Ministers and Deputy Ministers‘ Residences at Lahore. Government Buildings at Fort Manro, Sakesar and Nathiagalli.
      None—only the buildings provided with furniture at present are covered under this rule.
(2) Chair and sofa covers are included in the furniture for the residences of the Ministers‘, but carpets and curtains are excluded.
Ill—PURCHASE AND SALE OF‘ GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS
3.9. No buildings may be purchased for public purposes without the orders of Government to whom ‘a survey and valuation report by the Divisional Officer should, in.
all cases, be submitted. ,See also paragraph 323.
310. Provincial buildings in charge of the Buildings and Roads Department may, be sold or dismantled ‘in‘ accordance ‘with the ‘powers delegated,—-ride paragraph V of Annexure ‘B‘ to Chapter II.
(2) (a) It is necessary that other departments of, Governments with local interest are
consulted in regard to any use, they may have before the sale or demolition takes place.
(b) Buildings may be sold by the Buildings and Roads Department but when a building and site is sold together the consultation of the. Deputy Commissioner of the District is necessary.
(c) When buildings are to be dismantled a demolition statement in the form given below should be prepared and sent for sanction of the competent authority‘ :
(1) Serial No.‘
(2) Name of building tad reference to Register of Buildings.
(3) Date of Completion.
(4 Plinth area.
[3. II] PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE [Chap. III
        Capital cost excluding site.
        Probable cost of demolition.
        Probable cost of the material to be obtained from
        dismantling.
        How it is proposed to dispose of the material.
        Reasons for demolition and whether the building can not be utilized for any
Government purpose.
      (d) As regards those buildings for which an estimate for their reconstruction is sanctioned, no demolition statement need be prepared. The sanctioning authority should satisfy himself that the proposal do not involve the premature or unnecessary dismantlement of buildings.
(3) Temporary buildings erected during the construction of work may under the sanction, previously obtained, of the Superintending Engineer, be sold or dismantled on the completion of the work or when the purpose for which they were erected has been served.
IV—HIRE OF OFFICE ACCOMMODATION
(4) 1. When no suitable Government building is available, private buildings may be hired for use as offices, the rent being charged to the contingencies of the office concerned. When the^ Building is entirely used for office accommodation, the rent is wholly chargeable -to Government, while, when it is partly used for office purposes and partly for residential or other purposes, the share of the rent payable by Government will be proportionate to the amount of the main buildings set aside solely for office use. The subletting for residential purposes of buildings hired as offices will require the approval of Government and consent of Finance Department, and any recovery of rent for portions sublet will be made by the Head of office concerned and credited to the Revenue Head of Ms Department. Before it is decided to hire a privately-owned building, it is necessary to obtain a non-accommodation certificate from the Division Officer concerned who should also be consulted about the reasonableness of the rental proposed except in cases where the rent is less than Rs. 40. Per mensem, and when -a portion is to be sublet, the Divisional Officer should be requested to assess the correct rent of the portion. The actual selection	of	the	accommodation,	however,	shall
     rest with the officer for whom it f required, subject to the
CHAP. III] PUNIC BUILDINGS— GENERAL [3. II]
      approval of competent authority, and the lease in connection with the hire will also be executed by the Department concerned. See also paragraph 3.24 (2).
(5) An officer permitting occupation of a Government or leased building by any private
person or local body should at once inform the authority in charge of the building of such occupation: The authority in charge will be the Divisional Officer concerned in the case of buildings in charge of the Buildings and Roads Department, and the Head of the Department concerned in the case of buildings rented as offices.
(6) Powers to sanction expenditure on rents of nonresidential buildings by the various
officers of the Buildings and Roads Department as given in paragraph IT-A of Annexure ‘B‘ to Chapter-TI of: this Code.
- (4) When Divisional Officers provide accommodation for their offices in the building (not being a Government Building) in which they reside, they may, under the orders of the Superintending Engineer be allowed to draw office rent up to Rs 30, a month chargeable in the monthly contingent bill. In special cases the office rent may, at the discretion of the Superintending Engineer be increased to a maximum of Rs. 40 a month; but in no case should it exceed half the rent of the whole house subject to the same maximum. Any departure from the above rules will need the consent of Government.
(5) When a Sub-Divisional Office is necessarily accornodated in the officer‘s residence (not being a Government Building), he may, under the sanction of the Superintending Engineer be allowed a fair proportion of the rent actually Raid for the house he occupied on account of the accommodation which he necessarily has to provide for the office up to & maximum of Rs. 20 per mensem, any higher rent being fixed by Government, subject to the following conditions:
      (i) In calculating the accommodation set apart for office purposes, no allowance should be made for a separate room, apart from the office, to be occupied by the Sub-Divisional Officer.
      (ii) The Divisional Officer must certify both as to the amount of necessary accommodation, and that it
      3.11
is actually available and suitable in the house in question.
(iii) He must also certify that no Government building is available and that no suitable separate building can be hired for the purpose at a less cost.
If the house is a Government building, the rent to be paid by the occupant should be calculated under	para	532	Annexure	to	this	Chapter.
 (6) The Municipal Tax assessed on the annual value of buildings in which office accommodation is provided, or on the laud appertaining to them, should be treated as separate from the rent. If it is the local rule or custom for the tax to be chargeable to the owner, the tax for the entire building will be paid by the owner of the building, otherwise the officer concerned should pay the share, of such tax corresponding to the share of the rent payable by him and Government should be debited with the difference, see paragraph 317 -
      Notes—1. The orders contained in clause (3) and (4) of the paragraph are special for Buildings and Roads Department and over-ride the general orders regarding powers of, officers for sanctioning recurring expenditure chargeable to contingencies as shown in Annexure to this chapter.
2.	Powers of various officers in the matter of sanctioning the renting of office
accommodation are subject to the production of a non-accommodation certificate as required under note (3) and to the further proviso that no lease is entered into for a period of more than one year.
3.	(a) The rent of any land of building occupied for public purposes shall be paid by
the public office or department occupying it, and recorded in the public accounts as a charge of that office or department. The first charge in every year made in any contingent bill should be supported by a ‘certificate from the Executive Engineer con- corned that suitable buildings belonging to the Government were not available for the purpose required and that the rental of the privately owned buildings viz, Rs	
     is reasonable.
(b) The rule does not authorize payments or adjustments between departments.
      (c) The rent of the buildings hired for residential purposes is paid from the minor head —Repairs” under the Major Head —50—Civil Works”. The hiring of buildings for residential accommodation requires like previous approval of Government and the consent of the Finance Department which must be applied for by the Heads of Departments concerned duly supported by a certificate from the Divisional Officer of the Buildings and Roads Department that the rent is reasonable and no suitable Government accommodation is available. In the ease of such building the lease is to be executed by the building and Roads Department and the formalities laid down in paragraph 10 44 of the Buildings and Roads Department Manual of Orders, regarding the recovery of rent, are to be observed.
      (d) In the case of buildings which have been hired‘ as offices, any sub-letting requires the approval of Government and consent of the Finance Department. The rent of such building e should be debited to the contingent grant of the Government Servants concerned and any recovery of rent for portion sublet should be made by the Head of —Moe sad credited to Revenue Heed of the Department end not to me Buildings and
CHAP-III	PUBLIC BUILDINGS—GENERAL	[3 .12
Roads Department Revenue head. Lease of buildings hind as offices should be concerned of the Department of the Buildings and Roads Department should only be con‘ corned with:-
(i) giving a non-accommodation corticated;
      (ii) certifying that the rent of the building is reasonable; and (iii) when a part is sub-let, assessing the correct rent of the pert sub-let,
      (iii) The responsibility of the recovery or rents from Government servants civil employ occupying public buildings ordinarily rests with the Public Works Department, but Zn exceptional cases, where the cost of building has been treated as a civil charge the Accountant. General, must take the necessary steps to see that the Executive Engineer of the Division concerned is furnished with the necessary particulars.
3.A,—Government servant permitting occupation of a Government or leased building by any private person of local body should at once inform the authority in charge of the building of such occupation. The authority in charge will be the Executive Engineer concerned in t he case of buildings in charge of Buildings and Roads Department % and the head of the deportment concerned in. the case of building rented as o eta.
4.	The certificate required from Divisional Officers as to the reseasonableness of rent
referred to in sub-paragraphs (c) and (d) above, will not be necessary in eases where the rent involved is less than Re. 40 per mensem.
V—RENTING OF BUILDINGS
     3-12.	It! is the duty of the Divisional Officer or the Estate Officer Where there is one to
Endeavour to get tenants for public buildings not immediately required for Government use. They should generally be let from month to month, month but a lease may be given up to one year by the Superintending Engineer or the Divisional Officer provided the rent of the building as fixed by the competent authority does not exceed Rs. 200 and Rs. 100 a month respectively. A clause in the agreement should be added, when necessary, to enable the Divisional Officer to terminate the lease at short notice in case the building is required by Government.
     (2)	The Divisional Officer or Estate Officer is empowered to let in the most advantageous
way possible Government owned or hired residential buildings under their charge for which a Government servant is not paying rent under rules 539 to 546 of Annexure I to this Chapter or the equivalent rules of other integrating units an. tenants vacating or desiring to occupy them should invariably apply to him direct. It must be clearly understood that no other -district official is permitted to exercise this authority without the prior approval and consent of the Divisional Officer.
NOTES— ( l )—Whenever a residence cannot be allotted to the incumbent of the post to which it is attached or to a Government servant of the class for which It was constructed it may be let to a Government servant net holding the particular post or not belonging to that class subject to the conditions that :-
(a) the allotment ceases within two month, of a Government servant for whoa the residence is intended becoming available at the station of tenan and
(b) the rent to ho recovered under the rules from the temporary tenant is no less than of the standard rout of the house.
(i) A competent authority may relax the provisions of thin note as a special case if considered necessary. -
(The assent of Finance Department is not presumed ‘aider note-ii
i)	As an exception to the general rules contained in sub-paragraph (ii) above the actual
allotment in the case of the following residential buildings, has been left to the officer noted against each, who will, however, be responsible to intimate all changes In occupancy to the Divisional Officer of the Provincial Division concerned for purposes of assessment and recovery of rent by the latter-:
(1) let and 2nd Assistant Commissioner‘s Deputy Commissioner, Lyallpur Subject to residences at Lyallpur	the control of the Commissioner Multan
Division.

Note—Residence of different Departments which are earmarked for officials of that department shall be allotted by the department concerned to whom these residences belong.
313. Public buildings let to private individuals should not be altered or enlarged at Government expense to suit the tenant and persons occupying public building on rent are prohibited from making any alterations even at their own expenses, except with the express concurrence of the Superintending Engineers. The fact of any additions or alterations being made by the tenant confers no right of ownership on him, nor can the fact of the occupant having made additions or alterations at his own expenses be considered as giving him any claim to a set off against, or diminution of rent. these conditions should be entered in the agreement or lease, 314. Government servants occupying Government Buildings or leased buildings as residences are strictly prohibited making privately any kind of additions or alterations therein whether structural, sanitary or Electrical, without the express permission of the Superintending Engineer of.	The	Buildings	and	Roads	Department.
315. No public building in the charge of‘ the Divisional Officer may be occupied as a private residence without his consent except under the orders of his departmental superiors or of Government.
1. 16.	On no account is any church, chapel, mosque, temples, tomb or other building
devoted to religious use, to be occupied as a. dwelling house, or for any other purpose, with- out the consent of the persons interested and the sanction of the principal civil or political authority on the spot. See also paragraph 281.
VI-TAXES
317. Municipal taxes on Public Works buildings other than buildings occupied as
residences, are payable by the department occupying them and are debatable to that department, as explained below:-
(a) As a general rule, Municipal rates and taxes on non-residential buildings paid by, or passed on to a department occupying the hole or part of the building, are debited to the contingencies of the department concerned. Where, however, the whole or part of the tax paid by the Buildings and Roads Department, or by a Civil Department as the Department in administrative control of the buildings, the payments may be charged to the maintenance estimate of the buildings concerned.
(b) Taxes on non-residential buildings occupied by departments if paid by a department nominated by Government in this behalf and not passed on to the occupying department are charged to 57- Miscellaneous Rents Rates and Taxes.
       Municipal and other taxes (in the nature of house or property tax or otherwise), when payable by Government in respect of buildings occupied as residence.‘ will be adjusted as part of the cost of maintenance of the building. Where, however, the whole or any portion of the taxes, which by local rule or custom are ordinarily livable from the tenant, is paid by. a department other than the department in. administrative control of the building, the charge may be-treated as contingent	expenditure	of	the	paying	department.
(2) The responsibility for the acceptance of the assessment rests with the Divisional Officer in charge of the building and, on the Divisional Officer recording his acceptance, the payment will be arranged for by the department concerned, If the assessment appears unduly high, proceedings
Should be taken to obtain redress under the ordinary municipal law and recourse should not ordinarily be had to the special provisions of act XI of 1881. No municipal taxes are livable on public buildings situated in cantonments. In any ease in which a lump sum is paid as tax for all Government buildings, or for a number of Government buildings in a municipality, it shall, provided the building] are in the occupation of more then one department of Government, be	paid	in	the	Civil	Department.
Note-	Recourse to the special as provisions of Act XI of 1881 should be had only
when	an amicable (though possibly	arbitrary	) settlement With	the local	authority has
faded	in cases when the property to be	assessed	is, from its nature, such as not	to admit of the
application of ordinary principles in assessing the payment thereon of any particular tax, e.g., when	the assessment is-on the	letting	value and the	property	is of such
nature	that it is difficult to conceive	its being	lot and impossible	to form any estimate of
the rent that would be obtained for it if the Government offered to let it.
            (8) (a) In the case of buildings occupied as residences, all municipal and other taxes in the nature of house or property tax payable by Government in respect of such buildings shall be taken into account in calculating standard rents under rules 58 to 518 Annexure I to Chapter III. Taxes other than these whether required to be paid by local rule or 		custom by
the oner or tenant shall be paid by the latter in 	 addition to the standard rent or 10 per cent of
monthly payable under Rules 522 (a) and (b of Annexure - -: to this Chapter. They will also be recoverable in cases when buildings are occupied rent free except from those who are enjoying rent-free concession as shown below the rules in Annexure I to Chapter III.
Note—	The tent —property tax” as used above, should be Interpreted In the
general sense end not In the technical sense assigned to it in any particular Act or Cod.. and it should, therefore net be considered to include taxes levied for specific services Tendered for the benefit of the occupier. Therefore all taxes of a service character, such as water tax, drainage tax, though they may be included in a consolidated demand for property tax, should ‘be recovered separately from the occupier under Rule 5. 2 (6) (u) Annexure I to this Chapter.
(b)	Municipal   and	other	taxes	(in   thenature	of	house	orproperty	taxor	otherwise)	whenpayable   by	Government	inrespect	ofbuildings	occupied	asresidences,	will	be	adjustedas	part	of   the	cost	of	maintenance	of   the	building.	Taxespayable	bytenants	under	the	local   rules  or	custom	will	bepaid	by	them	direct	in	cases	in  which  the	amount	of	taxpayable	to	the	municipality	in	respect   of	a   building	has	to	beborne	partly  by	the	Government	servantoccupying	the	buildingand partly by Government, the tax will be paid in full by
[Chap. III)	PUBLIC BUILDINGS—GENERAL	[3 18)
Government servant will be recovered from him by Government.
      Note— the excess water charges as distinguished from the water tax proper will not be debited to annual repair estimates but to miscellaneous advances, pending recovery from the tenants concerned.
      (c) With the sanction of Government exemption from the taxes payable by tenants (whether the amount is based on the rental or on the actual amount of service rendered) may be granted to Government servants on pay exceeding Rs. 150 per mensem.
      (d) In the case o Government servants on pay exceeding Es. 150 per mensem, who by reason of the nature of their duties occupy more expensive residences than they would if they were left to make their own arrangements, the amount of taxes based on the rental value of the house and ordinarily leviable by local rule or custom on the tenant and recoverable from the occupant may, with the sanction of Government, be reduced to an amount which would be payable on a rental equal to 10 per cent of the emoluments of the Government servants. If owing to changes of Government servants there is likely to be difficulty in recovery, a lump sum may be fixed for recovery in the case of each residence based on the above general principles. But charges which are levied not on the basis of rental, but as payment for a definite amount of service rendered, e.g., the quantity of water or electric energy supplied, must be paid in full by Government servants on pay exceeding Rs. 150 per	mensem.
      2) 18. The provisions of paragraph 317 above do not apply to the residences of the Governor as the payment of local rates and taxes in connection with these residences and the provision of electricity and water for the Govern& and his personal staff living in Governor Rouses is $.o be treated as maintenance expenditure payable by the Buildings and Roads Division	concerned.
      3) ) The occupants of staff quarters and other buildings appurtenant to Governor‘s House Lahore and Murree, are exempt from the payment of charges for water and electricity

      VII—SUMMARY, WATER SUPPLY AND ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS
3.19	. All works and repairs in connection with sanitary water supply and electric installation
to Government buildings should be carried out by or through the agency of the Buildings and Roads Department except in special cases under the orders of Government.
VIII—I INSPECTION OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS
      3.20. (a) It will be the duty of the Sub-Divisional Officer to see that all public buildings in his charge including provincial properties transferred to local bodies for maintenance are duly inspected at least once year as indicated below, such instructions being made in respect of soundness or otherwise of the roof and floor timber in the buildings and in respect of their general condition. The form of the register is as given below:—
Register of annual Inspection of Public Buildings borne on the Register of Provincial Buildings.
	Provincial Division.
	Provincial Sub-Division.
Item No. as per	Locality	Name of buildings Date of	Remarks by the divisional
register of buildings	inspection	officer
The general examination by the officers with respect to their ranks are as detailed below: —
(1) Overseer to inspect once every year all buildings
 costing Rs. 5,000 and below (including out-house), both residential and non- residential within jurisdiction
(2) Sub-Divisional Officer to inspect every year all buildings in their jurisdiction, costing above Rs.5000.
(3) Executive Engineer to inspect every year all the buildings in the Division
costing above Rs. 25,000,

(b)	The Executive Engineer, the Sub-Divisional Officers and the Overseer should record
       notes of their inspections in separate registers to be maintained by each of them.
 All these registers should be shown to the Superintending Engineer during his annual inspection of Divisional Offices.
(c) Executive Engineers should inspect as often as possible buildings which show cracks or definite signs of deterioration and take early steps to effect the necessary Improvement there to.
FORM OF REGISTER OF INSPECTOR
OF BUILDINGS.
Station 	
Name of Buildings or group of buildings 	
Capital cost Rs.	
Officer responsible for inspection .	
Executive Engineer, Sub-Divisional Officer,
YearPortGeneral condition      RemarksFoundations.....Floors....Wall structureWall structure.Roof beams...Roof covering....Dated	
Signature	
       The Executive Engineer will report to Superintending Engineer, if circumstances require it, for that Officer‘s further action. Matters which the Superintending Engineer cannot deal with, should be brought to the notice of Regional Engineer. The Executive Engineer and the Superintending
3.21. 3..23	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[CHAP. III
      Engineer on their tours of inspection should see that above instructions are being complied with.
IX—REGISTERS OF BUILDINGS.
3.22. Each Superintending Engineer will keep a register (in Buildings and Roads Stereo Form No. 121 and 121-A) by Civil Districts of all buildings in charge of the Department within his Circle, and each Divisional Officer a similar resister of all the buildings within his Division. In these registers the value of the laud comprised in a property will be shown separately from the value of the building or buildings there on. the value of each separate structures being also shown separately. It the case of a purchased property the price paid will be apparitional between the various items comprising the property, e.g., land, main buildings, servants‘ quarters, compound wall, well, etc. The registers will also show whether the building is to be maintained at	the	cost	of	Central,	Provincial	or	Local	Funds.
Notes- The register of buildings may be divided into two parts, one for the record of buildings of a permanent nature and other for record of buildings of a topiary character.
X—PLANS OF BUILDINGS.
3.23. In case of buildings and works borne on the returns of the Buildings and Roads Department, the Executive Engineer will be held responsible that plans of such buildings are corrected on completion of any alterations.
      A register of all buildings in the Department will be maintained in the office of the
       Regional Engineer.
     B—RESIDENCES FOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
I—General.
3.24. No houses may be built or purchased as residences for public servants, except in the following cases:-
(i) When it is the recognized duty or established custom of . the Government to provide quarters at Government expense.
(ii) When it is necessary on public grounds for the Government servant to reside on, or
close to the premises in which his duties have to be performed, such as a jail, a police Thana a school, a factory, a mint, etc.
(iii) When it is necessary to provide residences in part of the country where no civil station or canton-
Chap, III) PUBLIC Buildings—RESIDENCES [3‘24 FOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
Cantonment exists, and where lengthened term of residence would render camp accommodation unsuitable, e.g., buildings along lines of roads or canals, for the housing of officials employed on their construction or maintenance.
(iv) When it is shown to the satisfaction of Government that suitable house accommodation for Government servants whose appointments are permanent in respect of locality is not available in a civil station or cantonment already in existence, or available only under circumstances which will be likely to place such‘ Government servants in an undesirable position in relation to house proprietors.
iv.24. Before sanctioning or recommending proposals for the construction or purchase of a residence for a Government official, the authority concerned should consider whether the requisite accommodation cannot be more conveniently provided by taking an existing building on lease for such a term, and on such conditions, as may be appropriate. The hiring of such buildings requires the previous approval of Government and the consent of the Finance Department which must be applied for by the Heads of Departments concerned, duly supported by a certificate from the Divisional Officer of the Buildings and Roads Department that the rent is reasonable and no suitable Government accommodation is available. Such approval will be accorded subject to the condition that the present and future incumbents of the appointment held by the official for whose accommodation the building is leased shall be required during the term of the lease to occupy the house and to pay in accordance with rules 5.6 and 5.46 in Annexure I to this chapter.
Note— The certificate as to the reasonableness of rent required from the Divisional Officers will not be necessary in oases where the rent involved Is lees than Re. 40 per mensem (a) In case the Government is approached for a lease of a building, the proposal should clearly show the following:-
        in sum payable annually to the lesser.
        whether all repairs will be executed by the lesson; and if net;
        the estimated annual charges for maintenance and repairs, if they an to
        be executed by Government‘
in cases in which Government is liable to pay the municipal taxes the amount of such taxes
(v) The standard rent of the residence under rule 516 of Annexure I of the Chapter and
(vi) the average emoluments of the officer for whom the residence Is proposed and the
      maximum rent recoverable from him.
The proposals should show distinctly that the scale of accommodation is not in excise of that fixed by the Government.
Rs.28-     per mensem ..      632Re. 60 to 176     per mensem .,      795Re. 150 to 249     per mensem .. .      1,523Re. 250 to 399     per meneem ,. — .. .      1,700Re. 400 to 599     per meneem 	      2,067Re. 600 to 849     per mensem 	      2,475Re. 850 to 1199     per mensem 	      2,800Re. 1,200 to 1,799     per mensem 	      3,400Re. 1,800 and above per mensem o 		3,815

(b) in case of proposals to construct or to purchase a building the following information‘s should be given: -
(i) that the conditions of rule 5‘22 (a) in Annexure I of this Chapter will be fulfilled filled-:
(ii) the probable capital cost, the average annual cost of maintenance including taxes and the standard rent under rule 510 in Annexure I of this 4 chapter Chapter.
(iii) The average emoluments of the officer for whom the quarters are constructed.
(c) As a rule no proposal should be made for the supply of accommodation in excess of scale appropriate to the status of-the occupant. Subject to this main principle, every proposal should, so far as possible, be so formulated that the standard rent does not exceed the maximum rent ordinarily recoverable from the occupant under the rules in Annexure I to this Chapter. in order to watch the rent calculated under the rules in Annexure I of this Chapter shall fall within 10 per cent of the occupant‘s average emoluments a provisional rent statement should be sent to the Director, Audit and Account (Works), West Pakistan, with each proposal for the construction of a residential building or an addition or alteration to en existing building.
(2) No house should, however, be leased as a residence combined with office, or an office combined with residence. A house should be leased either as residence or an office. The criterion for deciding whether any house is an office or a residence should be that if the rent for the office portion is greater if is an office, if the rent for the residence portion is greater it is a residence, but if rent for office and residence portions is equal it should be treated as an office.
      Where any part of an office is used as a residence, the provisions of paragraph 311 (I) apply and as stated therein, rent should be -recovered by the Administrative Department concerned. But where the converse is the case i.e., a part of a residence is used as an office, the Buildings and roads
165
Chap. III)
FOR OFFICIALS
Department should recover rent from the tenant and also rent for the office from the office concerned,
(3) Leases should ordinarily provide that the less or will execute all structural repairs before the. building is occupied and will carry out such additions, alterations and repairs as are necessary to render the building habitable and suitable for the purpose for which it Is required. In the event of any addition or alteration to the building being made subsequent to the signing of the lease at the request of the occupant and at Government expense, the consent of the owner must first be obtained in writing unless the work is considered by Government to be essential for sanitary reasons, and the rent payable by the occupant will be increased under the following rules
      1. If the lessor agrees to take over the work done on the expiry of the lease and to
pay to Government the original cost of that work less an allowance for deterioration, which should be fixed before the work is done, the occupant will be required to pay the following additional charges: —
      (a) 6 per cent, on the capital cost of the additional work;
      (b) The percentage or amount fixed for deterioration
      (c) the annual estimated charges for maintenance and repairs of the additional work
(if	repairs
are executed by Government; or
      (ii)	If the landlord refuses to accept any liability for the additional work, the rent
payable by the occupant will be increased by a sum sufficient to cover during the period of the lease:—
      (a)	the	capital	sum	expended	including	interest
7 at the rate per cent specified in (1) (a) above; (b) the annual estimated charges for	maintenance
and repairs of the additional work.
Note—the amount to be recovered monthly front the tenant should be fixed when the work is completed and should be distributed equally through out bout the remaining	period	of	lease..
In case (i) the capital will be the total expenditure less half the amount which will be recovered on account of deterioration.
3.25- -3.26	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[Chap. III
      In case (ii) interest will be calculated on half the amount of the outlay.
(4) Capital expenditure under sub-clause (ii) of clause
(3) should only be incurred when absolutely necessary.
(5) Remission or reduction of charges on account of rent for the occupation of leased houses
as well as rent liability of the occupant will be governed by Rules as per annexure I to this Chapter.
(6) (i) In cases, however, where a bungalow which is occupied by a gazetted officer becomes vacant owing to the officer‘s transfer to another post, the Executive Engineer concerned.
may without the special sanction of the Provincial Government employ one chawkidar during the period the bungalow remains vacant at monthly emoluments sanctioned for a Beldar in the locality.
(ii) In the event of no one being either in occupation of a residence or responsible for the rent or if the officer responsible for the rent has received permission to reside elsewhere and the residence is un-occupied, the pay of a suitable establishment not exceeding one mali and cooly, may with the special sanction of the Provincial Government be charged to the annual repairs estimate of the building.
3.25. Standard rents of residential buildings may be fixed by Superintending Engineers of the Buildings and Roads Department for all buildings within their charges.
II—SPECIAL RULES RELATING TO EXPENDITURE ON RESIDENCE
OF THE GOVERNOR.
326. The following rules govern the expenditure in connection
with the residences of the Governor of West Pakistan:—
(1) There are following residences of the Governor of the West Pakistan.
(a) Governor‘s House at Lahore.
(b) Governor‘s House at Murree.
(c) Governor‘s House at Peshawar.
(d) Governor‘s House at Nathiagali.
(e) Governor‘s House at Karachi.
(f) Governor‘s House at Quetta.
CHAP. III]	PUBLIC BUILDINGS -RESIDENCE	[3.26
FOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
(2) In pursuance of the provisions of Clause (b) of sub paragraph (1) of paragraph 7 of the
Government of Pakistan.
—The allowances and privilege” (Governors) Order 1952, the following general order has been made
Except with the special order of the President of Islamic Republic of Pakistan which must be obtained in advance, the amount of expenditure incurred on the maintenance, improvement, renewal or replacement of the official residences of the Governor shall not in any one year exceed the amounts respectively specified in the table below
MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS
ProvinceImprovementGardensElectricityWaterTaxesRepairsTotal    1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8Rs.Rs.Rs.Rs.Rs.Rs.Rs.West
Pakistan5,00031,20020,00013,0002,60028,2001,00,000
       Provided that the Governor in his individual judgment, may, without exceeding the maximum specified in column 8 of the above statement, re appropriate whenever necessary from or to one sub-head of the table above to or from another sub-head thereof.
Nate—	The above figures are exclusive of establishment and tools and pin charge. which
are not to be levied on works and repairs in connection with the residence of the Governor.
(3) The expenditure on original works as defined in paragraph 21 of this Code,
pertaining to buildings and electricity, water supply and sanitary installations connected with these residences must not exceed during any year the appropriation sanctioned by the competent authority. This limit will be exclusive of the expenditure on establishment and tools and plants.
(4) The expenditure under various sub-heads prescribed for repairs and maintenance in
       clause 2 above must not exceed the appropriation sanctioned thereof.
(5) Disbursements will be made by the following officers -:
(i)	The Divisional Officer Incharge working under the order of the Superintending Engineer
       Incharge
(iv) The Military Secretary to Governor of the West Pakistan so far as garden establishment at
Governor‘s House is concerned.
(v) Note —The Military Secretary to the Governor of the West Pakistan shall an and when he considers necessary ,obtain a cheque for purposes of incorporating them in	the	accounts	of	his	Division	.
from the Executive Engineer concerned. The former after making payment will return the vouchers to the latter for the purpose of incorporating thorn in the accounts of his Division
6) The Secretary to the Government, West Pakistan, irrigation, Communication and Works. Department, will be the co-coordinating authority in regard to all expenditure on original works and will be responsible to the Audit Department for keeping the aggregate expenditure during the year and the total expenditure on individual works within the limits mentioned in clauses 2 and 3 above. The Audit Department will watch the total expenditure during a year against the permissible limits.
(7) Except for works sanctioned by. the President of Islamic Republic of Pakistan the administrative approval of the Governor in his individual judgment is necessary in each case and should be obtained by the Secretary to Government Irrigation, Communications and Works Department, for communication to all concerned.
(8) The first charge against the grant for the year for original works will be the unexpended balance on the 30th June of all uncompleted works of the previous year. Provision for this charge should at once be made at the commencement of the year, and any subsequent changes in the figures thus taken which may be necessitated by adjustment or correction in the supplementary accounts of the years, should be affected	later	on.
(9) No authority giving technical sanction to a detailed estimate should permit an excess over the amount of the administrative approval, either in the first instance when sanctioning the detailed estimate or subsequently when sanctioning revised estimates or passing an excess. Whenever excess is anticipated on any work, a report should at once be made to the Secretary, Irrigation Communications and Works Department. No disbursing officer should incur even the ordinary permissible excess of	5%	of	the	sanctioned	estimate.
(10) All disbursing officers should give the earliest intimation to the Secretary, irrigation Communication and
Chap. III]	PUBLIC BUILDINGS —RESIDENCES	3.27
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
Works Department, of all anticipated saving ,if they are in a position to surrender them definitely so that, if necessary, they may be utilized on other works. If the amount of the 4 sanctioned detailed estimate is less than that of the administrative approval for the work, the savings should at once be reported to the Secretary, Irrigation Communication and Works Department by the officers sanctioning the detailed estimates.
(11) A record of the progressive expenditure on all original works and repairs detailed by items of works will be prepared by the Buildings and Roads Department, for the periods ending 31st December, the last day of February, 31st March, 30th April, 31st May and 30th June during each financial year, and will be submitted to the Director of Audit and Accounts (Works) for check.
      The - Audit Department will return the statement after
check to the Buildings and Roads Department, within two weeks, with a certificate as to its correctness or otherwise.
1.1- CLASSIFICATION OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS AND
ASSESSMENT OF RENT.
3.27- Government buildings intended for occupation as residences are divided into two classes Class I—Buildings which will ordinarily be occupied by officers liable to pay the full standard rent subject to the limit of 10 per cent. of their emoluments. (See Rules 5.22 (b) annexure I of this Chapter).
Class-II	Buildings from which recovery of the full standard rent is not expected i.e.,
buildings which will ordinarily be occupied by officials who are entitled to accommodation rent free or at rates reduced under Rule 5. 28 annexure I to Chapter III.
Note-	The fact that a buildings of class I is occasionally occupied by a tenant who is
entitled to accommodation rent free or at a reduces rent not be justify its removal from class I toll, and similarly a buildings in Class II should not be transferred to class I whenever it is occupied by a tenant who may be required to pay rent in accordance with the rules. Buildings should be transferred from one class to the other only when there is a permanent change in the conditions under which they will ordinarily be rented Transfers should be made only under the orders ,of government and should have effect in all cases from the commencement of financial year.
3.28- 3.28)	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE [CHAP. III
IV— RENT RULES FOR GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS USED AS RESIDENCES.
3.28. The rules governing the recovery of rent for Government buildings used as residences, its remission and reduction are laid down in Rules.5.6 to 5.46 of Annexure I to Chapter III, any point which is not covered by them should be referred to Government for orders.
      2.	All applications for sanction to reduce the, rents of Government buildings
occupied as residences below the amount which should be charged under the foregoing rules must be accompanied by a tabular form in which should be shown the undermentioned particulars: -—
      (1) Value of building and site.
      (2) Average annual charges for maintenance: —
      (a) Special, and
      (b) Ordinary.
      (3) Rent assessed according to rules.
      (4) Proportion of total area occupied by office (if any).
      (5) Deduction on account of office rent (if any).
      (6) Rent that would be payable by occupant.
      (7) Rent that is proposed.
      (8) Average emoluments of occupant.
(9) Market rate for similar accommodation in the same station (to be given as far as practicable).
(10) Average rent chargeable under these rules other Government buildings, with, as nearly as may be similar accommodation (to be given as fa___ practicable.).
PERIODICAL REVIEW OF CONCESSIONS
3.29. In cases in which the grant of free quarters or of quarters at reduced rents has been sanctioned, Heads. of Departments and the Chief Engineer may, should such concessions appear to them for any reason to be no longer necessary, review such cases and recommend to Government the
[CHAP-III	'PUBLIC BUILDINGS -RESIDENCES	[3-30—.3-33
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
       Withdrawal of the concessions accompanied by data statements for sanction to the recovery of rent.
3.30. The recovery of rent for Government buildings occupied as residences by members of work-charged establishment is governed by the principle laid down in rule 5-22 b) Annexure I to Chapter III. Such members of this establishment who do not draw pay in excess of Rs. 30 per mensem shall, however, be exempt from the payment of rent.
(2) Where quarters are provided for Road Inspectors, they should occupy them on the same terms as the regular subordinate Establishment of this Department.
3.31. When any Government building is, under proper authority, let to a private person rent should be regularly recovered in advance for the same at the rates prevailing in the locality for similar accommodation belonging to private owners; but, without the special, permission of Government, the rents charged for the buildings thus let in any station should not be less than would result from. the application to them of the proviso below rule 5.16 of Annexure I to Chapter III.
 Note I.	Occupation of a residence bys Government servant‘s family after his headquarters
have transferred to another station, Is subject to this ruling in so far as rent liability is concerned,‘ except in cases of temporary transfers not exceeding four months, In which case the actual recovery shall be confined to 10 per cent of the pay of the Government servant concerned or standard rent which ever Is less provided the Superintending Engineer in case of Buildings and Roads Department.
       Head of Department in the case of Departments other than Buildings and Road Department.
       Satisfies himself and certificate that the transfer is temporary and it will not exceed four months
Note-2.	The rate of departmental charges for capital cost, addition and alteration and
maintenance and repairs shall be that In force at the time of calculation, of rent. In all ones where buildings are merely acquired by Government through the agency of the Buildings and Roads Department, charge of S per cent only on the capital coat shall be levied in lieu of the Lull rate of departmental	charges.
3.32. The Head Teacher, Assistant Teacher and Mistress detailed by the District Board, Multan, for the school for the children of the jail staff at the new Central Jail, Multan, are allowed rent free residential accommodation on the jail premises, for so long as the quarters occupied by them are	not	required	for	any	other	purpose	by	Government.
3.33. A shopkeeper, a shoe-maker and a tailor are allowed to occupy, free of rent the quarters allotted to them in the lines of the Baluch Levy Dera Ghazia Khan
334—336)	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT	CODE CHAP. III
3.34. The Canal Patwari the lady teacher of the District Board Girls School and the three teachers of the District Board School at the Adult Farms, Burewala, are allowed rent free accommodation, subject t to the condition that the accommodation is available after requirements of the officials of the Reclamation Department, who are stationed at the Burewala Farm, have been met
3.35. A nominal rent of rupee one per annum will be charged from the private individuals occupying Government quarters noted below
At Fort Munro       At Khar1. Shopkeeper1.Shopkeeper (shop and resident quarters)2.Petitiion -writer    2. Delivery Agent3.Baker-cum-Butcher4. Delivery Agent
      This) however, does not confer on these occupants a prescriptive right to remain in possession of the quarters,
3.36. Tailors, Barbers, Mochis and Washerman employed and residing in all the Police Lines in West Pakistan should be provided with rent-free accommodation.
ANNEXURE I 10 GRAFTER III. OP BUILDINGS AND
ROAD DEPARTMENT CODE.
(.as ref end to in paragraph 3.12)
PART 1,
EXTRACT FROM CIVIL SERVICE RULES(PB) CHAPTER -V.
VOLUME PART-I
II- RENT OF GOVERNMENT RESIDENCES
GENERAL
5.6. The following rules govern the allotment to Government servants for use by them as residences of such buildings owned or leased by Government or such portions thereof as may be made available for the purpose.
Note 1.—These rules shall also apply to Ministers.
Note 2.	If a judge of the High Court Ss provided with residential accommodation either
leased or owned Government, it shall be on such conditions, In regard to the payment of rent r otherwise as are, for the time being, applicable to members of the civil services of Pakistan serving at lahore under the administrative control of the Central Government.
      Note - if the Chairman or any member of the Punjab and North. West Frontier Province Joint Public Service Commission m provided with residential accommodation either leased or owned by Government, it shall be on such conditions in regard to the Civil services of Pakistan serving at Labor, under the administrative control of the Provincial Government.
Note-4.	When a Government servant of a government other than the Punjab Government
occupies by official arrangement a residence provided by the Punjab Government or vice versa, rent shall be recoverable from the Government servant in so. accordance with the rules in. Appendix 4 to the Punjab Financial Rules reproduced In Part II of this annexure ‘A‘ of Buildings and Road. Department Code.
5.7, Nothing contained in these rules shall so operate as to require payment of rent, for the occupation of residences supplied by Government, by those Government servants who have been exempted from such payment by order or the Governor. General or to affect the amount or rent or charges payable by those Government servants In whose case the amount so pay. able is prescribed	by	the	Governor-General.
(5) Capital cost of Buildings and Assessment of Rents.
(1) CAPITAL COST OF A RESIDENCE.
1.8. For the purpose of the assessment of rent, the capital cost of a residence owned by Government shall include the cost or value of sanitary, water supply and electric installations and fittings but exclude the cost or value of the site (including expenditure on its preparation); and shall	be	either,.—
      (a) the cost of acquiring or constructing the residence and any capital expenditure
Incurred after acquisition or construction; or, when this is not known.
      (b) The present value of the residence.
      —Provided that, where It is so directed by general or special order, the value of the site and the cost of Its preparation shall be included In the capital cost, and the cost of sanitary, water. Supply and electric installations may be excluded. If the cost of sanitary, water supply and electric installations are ordered to be excluded rent for such Installations shall be levied at the rates	specified	under	Rule	5.16	(4).	-
- Note -2.	The cost of restoration or special repairs shall not be added to capital cost or
present value, unless auth restoration or repairs add to accommodation or involve replacement of the existing type, ct work by work of a more expensive character.
ANNEXURE]	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[CHAP.III
1.9. For the purpose of Rule 5.8—
(1) Expenditure incurred on works such as—
(a) raising, leveling, dressing sites;
(b) construction of revetment and retaining walls, unless when incurred in
connection with the provision of a tennis court;
(c) Storm-water drains; and
(d) boundary pillars;
(i) shall be considered as expenditure on preparation of & site; and
(ii) Expenditure incurred on works such as—
(a) compound walls , knees and gates;
(b) roads and culverts within & compound.
shall be included in the capital cost of the residence for the purpose of assessment of standard rent.
1.10. When the present value of a residence and of the site on which it stands is un
known —vide clause (6) of Rule 5.8 the value of the residence and of the site shall be estimated separately by the Divisional Officer who shall, if the estimated value of either does not exceed Rs. 25,000, submit the estimate to the Superintending Engineer who shall determine the present value. If the Divisional Officer‘s estimate of either the site or the residence exceeds Rs. 25,000, he shall submit it to the Superintending Engineer, who shall forward it to the Chief Engineer, who shall determine, the value of the residence and of the site. The Divisional Officer‘s estimate shall, In both cases, be accompanied by a report of the Chief Civil Officer of the district in regard to the value of the land and also the value of the building with reference to the market value of similar buildings in the vicinity.
1.11. A competent authority may, for reasons which should be recorded, authorize a revaluating of all residences of a specified class or classes within a specified area to be conducted under Rule 5.10 above, and may revise the capital cost of any or all such residences on the basis of such revaluation.
Note—The intention of this rule is to rise revaluation of a residence or residences in accordance with the Rule 5.10 even when the factors specified caluse (2) of Rules 5.5 ate known. 5-12. The capital cost, howsoever calculated, shall not take into consideration (1) any charges on account of establishment and tools and plant other than such as were actually charged direct to the work in, cases in which the residence was constructed by Government, or (2) in other cases, the	estimated	cost	of	such	charges.
NOTE—full departmental charges should be levied in cases referred to in No. (1) below Rule 5.8.
5-13. Renewals of a building or of its subsidiary works, such as cut- houses, roads, drains, culverts, etc., or a new construction, such as retaining walls, necessitated by the occurrence of fire, flood, earthquake, abnormal
Annexure I
storm or other calamity will be chargeable to the capital cost, but on completion a competent authority will decide what -amount should be written off the original capital cost .When a proton of a building is required to be dismantled to make room for alterations and additions the capital value of the dismantled portion should be dealt with under the rules in the Public Works Department Code applying to buildings generally.
5.14. A competent authority may, for reasons which - should be recorded, write off a special portion of the capital cost of a residence-
(1) When a portion of the residence must be set aside, by the Government Servant to whom the residence Is allotted, for the reception of official and non-official visitors visiting him on business; or -
(2) When it is satisfied that the capital coat, as determined under the above rules, would be greatly in excess of the proper value of the accommodation provided.
Note—See also rule 5.32.
5.15) In assessing the cost or value of the sanitary, water supply and electric installations and fittings (vide rule 6.8) the following shall be regarded as comprising the installation and fittings:
— -
ELECTRIC SUPPLY.
(1) Wiring, including the supply line from the main, and all connected apparatus such as fuse boxes and switches.
(2) Fixed lamps (bracket and pendant) including shades holders but excluding shades and bulbs. -
(3) Wall plugs of table lamps, table fans and electric heaters.
(4) Fan points (excluding ceiling fans and regulators).
(5) Lighting interceptors
(6) Meters when supplied d by Government.
SANITARY AND WATER .SUPPLY
   (1) Pipe, including service pipe from the main.
      (2) Apparatus for hot water-supply. -
       (3) Cisterns, taps and other necessary fittings
      (4) Baths; basins and lavatory fittings. -
      (5)-Meters when provided at the cost of Government.
(6) Drains including the main connection with the sewer, and all connected apparatus such as galleys, channels, traps and vent pipe for the disposal- of house wastes and sewage. -
Note-1. The inclusion of these articles in this rule dose not bind government to provide alt or any of them in a residence. -
(2) None-2. When table lamps, talus fans or other charge appliances not included under —Electric Supply” above, have already been supplied, their cost should be included in the capital cost of the residence, but on their becoming unserviceable they should not be replaced the capita! cost of the residence being reduced accordingly,
ANNEXURES]	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE [CHAP. III
(11) STANDARD RENT
11.10. The Standard rent of a residence shall be calculated as follows:—
(a) In the ease of leased residences the standard tent shall be the sum paid to the lessor plus an allowance for meeting during
the period of leases the probable cost o charges for—
(i) Both ordinary and special maintenance and repairs of the residence as may be a charge
on Government including maintenance and repairs of any additional work done at Government expenses.
(ii) Capital expenditure on additions and alterations as may be a charge on Government;
(iii) interest on capital expenditure referred to in (ii) above ; and
(iv) the rates tor taxes In the nature of house or property tax if any, payable, under any law or
Custom by the owner to a municipality or other local body (but not recoverable from the Government Servant to whom the residence is allotted).
      The allowances for meeting such capital expenditure on additions and alterations as may be a charge on Government and the interest and depredation in connection therewith, shall be as laid down in paragraph 3.22 (3) of the Punjab Public Works Department Code (Second Edition).
(b) In the case of residences owned by Government, the standard rent shall be calculated on
the capital cost of the residence, and shall be either of the following whichever is less— (i)	a percentage of such capital cost equal to such rate of interest as may from time to time
be fixed by competent authority plus an addition for municipal and other taxes in the nature of house or property tax In respect of the residence payable to Government and for both ordinary and special maintenance and repairs, such addition being determined under rule 2.21 or (ii) six per cent per annum of such capital cost The restriction of 6 per cent per annum shall not apply In the case of residences the capital cost of which is calculated under the proviso to Rule 5.8
(c) In both eases mentioned in clauses (a) and (b) above standard rent shall be expressed as
standard for a calendar month and shall be equal to one-twelfth of the annual rent as calculated above subject to the provision‘s that, in special localities, or in respect of special classes of residence, * competent authority may fix a standard rent to cover a period greater than one month, but not greater than one year. Where a competent authority takes action under this proviso standard rent so find shall not be a larger proportion of the annual rent than the proportion which the period of occupation as prescribed under Rule 5.41 infra bears to one year.
Annexure -I
(c) When sanitary, water supply and electric installations as defined in Rule 5.15 are not included in the capital cost of a residence rent shall be assessed on the capital value of such installations at the following percentages:—
interestMaintenanceDepreciationSanitary installationsAs per rule 5.196 per cent (ordinary 5 per cent special 11 percentageElectric installationDitto4 percent5 percent
Note I.	Municipal taxes which by local rule or custom are levied on the occupant will be
payable by the occupant in addition to the rent payable to Government under these rules.
Note—2. See also Rule 5.33 infra
Note—3.	For the purposes of clauses (a) and (b) above the additions for both ordinary and
special maintenance and repairs shall not Include anything for the establishment and tools and plant charges except to the extent allowed under rule 5.12 infra
Full Department charges should, however, be in cases referred to in Note (1) below Rule 5.8.
5. 17. When the standard rent of a residence has belt calculated no to Calculation on account
      of minor additions ad alterations to^ the residence shall be made during the next five yearn, save in the following circumstances:—
      (1). When the up-to-date additional expenditure chargeable as capital cost exceeds 5 per cent of the figure last adopted as the capital cost recalculation shall be made with effect from the commencement of the next financial year or from any earlier date from which a new tenant becomes liable for the payment of rent.
      (2) When a portion of the capital cost of a residence is written off under the orders of a competent authority, the rent should be recalculated forthwith,
Note—It is the duty of the Executive Engineer to give timely notice to the tenant concerned of the increase in rent . Omission, however, on his part to give such intimation in any case will not constitute a reason for the enhancement of not taking effect from the date later than that on which it is du, under the above rules.
5.18. If a building is actually occupied prior to the closing of the accounts of expenditure on its construction, acquisition or equipment, rent is nevertheless chargeable from the date of occupation and should be fixed provisionally with the sanction of the competent authority. The rent thus fixed provisionally while the accounts are open is subject to revision with retrospective effect when they are closed and no remission of rent on this account can be made save with the sanction of the competent authority.

5.19. The rates of interest given in the following table should be applied in calculating the standard rent of residences under rule 5.16 (b)
Rate of interest

 Percent   PercentBefore 1st April 1919 31   41st April 1992 to 31st December 1921 31   51st August 1992 to 31st December 1921 31   6From 1st January 1922 until further orders 6   6
Note -	The date of construction referred to in column (I) of this table should be taken as
the date on which the accounts of the estimate for the construction of the residence are closed .In respect of expenditure on additions and alteration to residences the interest should be calculated at the rate applicable on the date on which the accounts of the estimates for the additions and alteration are closed.
5.20. The average annual cost of maintenance and repairs will consist of two parts
special and ordinary charges as explained below :-
      i) Special charges will be those incurred in the renewal of floors or roofs or on other
special repairs or replacements occurring at long intervals Provision for such charges should be made in the form of percentages on the capital cost of each building. These percentages will very for different classes of buildings and are laid down in rule 5.21 when repairs are necessitated by the occurrence of fire flood earthquake abnormal storm or other calamity the cost of such special repairs should under revenue charges during the year and should not be included in the total charges or taken into account as a basis for the revision of the rent.
ii) Ordinary charges will include the cost of ordinary annual repairs together with a
proportional share of the expenditure that may be required quarterly or at other short intervals the amount of theses changes as regards buildings constructed or acquired by the irrigation branch is estimated as laid down in Blue 5.21 .For building constructed or acquired by the buildings and roads branch these will be estimated within the limits laid down in rule 5.21 by the Executive Engineer of the Division and approved by the superintending Engineer.
Note -See also rule 5.13
ANNEXURE-I
5.21. The following percentages of cost will be assessed on account of ordinary and special repairs in calculating the standard rent under Rule 5.16(b) (i):-
       When acquired or constructed through the agency of the Public works Department buildings and roads branch :-
ASSESSABLE PERCENTAGE ON THE CAPITAL COST OF THE
BUILDING EXCLUDING VALUE OF SITE-I
Class	of
buildingsDescriptionSpecial repairsOrdinaryAThose is good order built by the public works department in a semi percent style i.e with pucca foundation kutcha pucca outside walls lime pointed pucca parapets and chimneys traced jack arch or wooden karri roof over steel girders1          1 to 3BThose of a similar style of construction but not in good condition either built by the public works department	or
purchase from private individuals and added to or altered after purchase1          3 to 5CTemporary buildings i.e these with walls of mud masonry with thatched or tiled roof11          5 to 7
A charge of 41 percent of the capital cost will be made in addition to the above to cover the maintenance of water supply sanitary and electric installations where such exist
        Note- With reference to the minimum and maximum rates fixed above for annual ordinary repairs superintending Engineers of the Buildings and Roads Department should arrange to communicate to the Director audit and accounts (works) such percentages as are actually applied in fixed the standard rent in each individual case so that the rents fixed may be susceptible of security
        (c )	Conditions and Tenancy and rent payable by government ser cants.
        5.22. when government supplied a government servant with a residence leased or owned by it the following conations shall be observed:-
        a) the scale of accommodation supplied shall not except at the Government servants own request
exceed that which is appropriate to the status of the occupant :
b) ) Unless in any case it be otherwise expressly provided in these rules he shall pay (i) rent for the residence such rent being the
Standard rent as defined in Rule 5.16 above or 10 per cent of his monthly emoluments whichever is less and (ii) municipal and other taxes payable by government in respect of the residence not being in the nature of house or property tax
5.23. Noting contained in clause (b) of rule 5.22 above shall operate to prevent Government from-
(i) grouping after the standard rents have been calculated under the provision of Rule 5.16 above number of residences whether in a particular area or of a particular class or classes for the assessment of rent subject to the following conditions being full filled:-
      (1) that the basis of assessment is uniform: and
(2) that the amount taken from any Government servant shall not exceed 10 per cent of his monthly emoluments
      ii)	taking a rent in excess of that prescribed I rule 5.22 (b) above from a Government
servant.
(1) Who is not required or permitted to reside on duty at the station at which the residence is supplied to hi, or
(2) Who at his won request is supplied with accommodation which exceeds that which is appropriate to the status of the post held by him or
(3) Who is in receipt of a compensatory allowance granted on account of dearness of living g ;or
      (4) Who is permitted to sublet the residence supplied to him : or
      (5) Who sublets without permission the residence supplied to him
Note- under clause (ii) of this rule rent may be recovered in excess of 10 per cent of a government servants emoluments but not in excess of the standard rent as defined in rule 5.18.
      5.24. A Government servant who at his won request is supplied with a
residence owned or leased by Government of a class higher than that for which residence owned or leased by Government of a class higher than that for which he is eligible or affording accommodation in excess of that which is appropriate to this status shall unless otherwise decided by the competent authority be charged the full standard rent as calculated under rule 5.16 set surety be given the benefit of the 10 percent concession afforded by Rule 5.22 (b).
5.25. Non migratory Government servants permitted to recess in the hills shall pay for houses provided in the hills 10 percent of emoluments or the standard rent whichever is less for the period of allotment .This rent shall be paid in addition to the rent assessable under the rules for a residence supplied at the Government Servant‘s headquarters.
5.26. For the purposes of clause (b) of Rule 5.22 above —emoluments means;
      i) Pay”
      ii) Payment from general revenues and fees if such payments or fee are received in
the shape of a fixed addition to monthly pay and allowances as part of the Authorities remuneration of post”
ANNEXURE -I
(iii) Compensatory allowance oilier than travelling allowances and uniform allowance paid to nurses in hospitals, whether drawn from the general revenues or form a local fund.
(iv) Exchange compensation allowance;
(v) Pensions, other than a pension drawn under the provisions of Chapter VIII or Volume II of those rules, or compensation received under the Workmen’s Compensation Act, 1923. as subsequently amended;
(vi) In the case of a Government servant under suspension and in receipt of a subsistence grant the amount of the subsistence grant provided that if such Government servant is subsequently
allowed to draw pay for the period of suspension the difference c between the rent recovered on the basis of the subsistence grant
and the rent due on the basis of the emoluments ultimately drawn, shall be recovered from him.
It does not include allowances attached to the Quaid-e-Azam‘s Polka Medal and the Pakistan Police Medal
      .
Note —1. The emoluments of a Government servant paid at piece work rate rates shall be determined in such manner as the competent authority may prescribe
Note—2. the emoluments of a Government servant on Leave means the emoluments drawn by him for the last complete calendar month of duty performed by him prior to his departure on leave.
Note-3	The word —pension” occurring in this rule should be Interpreted as meeting the
entire amount of the pension originally sanctioned, and not only the residence after commutation.
NOTE. 4 — Whole deduction on secant of house-rent from Government servants in receipt of sterling overseas pay should be made in Pakistan and the sterling overseas pay should be converted into rupees at 28th January 1992 23rd in the rupees fro the purposes of calculating house-rent if the amount of house-rent has to be determined with reference to pay of the occupier.
517. The Government servant to whom a residence ii allotted,—vide Rule 519 set seq is responsible for the rent recoverable under the rules during the period of allotment unless exempted to competent authority under the previsions of Rules 5‘28.
Rent shall be recovered monthly in arrears for the period of allotment.
(d) Rent-free accommodation and waiving or reducing the amount of rent.
5.28, In special circumstances, for reasons which should hi recorded, by a competent authority—
(a) may, by general or special order, grant rent-free accommodation to any Government servant or class of Government servants, or
(b) May, by special order, waives or reduce the amount of rent to be recovered from the any Government servant or a class of Government servants; or
(c ) May, by general or special order, waive or reduce the amount of municipal and other taxes, not being in the nature of house or property tax, to be recovered from any Government servant or class of Government servants.
Note —1. the following are the types of eases In which such exemptions or re devotion may be sanctioned.
(a) When a Government servant Is not officiating In a poet, but ii performing
ANNEXURE) PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	CHAP- III
Duties of a post In addition to those of his substantive post and already pays rent for a house.
(H) Whoa a Government servant, in addition to the duties of a post, canted en those of another post which preclude him from occupying the house. When a Government servant hag been promoted or transferred to a post in the same station and It is not considered necessary that he should change his residence.
(d) When a Government servant officiating in a poet for a period not exceeding two months ii actually, prevented from occupying the house provided for him by circumstances which the competent authority consider. sufficient to warrant an exception being made in his favors.
       Note-2. When rents are axed in accordance with Rule 6.16 and when one or more Government servants supplied with residence, In the particular area are granted a house free of rent or at reduced rent, the proper course is to apply Rule 5.16 first and Rule 5.28 afterwards; that I. the ordinary rent of the occupant of each house should be fixed under Rule 8.16 and any reduction n necessary should then be made under the rule.
Note -3	A list of Government servant, who have been granted rent free accommodation
under this rule is given in Appendix 7.
5.29 . When, under clause (a) of Rule 6.28 a Government servant is provided with quarters free of rent the exemption from rent shall, In the absence of any orders of Government to the.
contrary, be considered to be complete, i.e no additional charge shall be made In respect of the rent of specie services in the building the cost of which has been Included in the capital cost of the building.
The concession of rent free quarters does not carry with it the free supply of water and electric energy the cost of which must be defrayed by the Government servant himself. The rent of water and electric meters the cost of meters the cost of which has not been included In the capital cost of the building Is also payable by the Govt: servant.
Note-I. -	The occupant. of staff quarters and other buildings appurtenant to Government
Rouse, Lahore are exempted from payment of charges for in Rule 5.57.
Note -2. See also Rule 5.37
5.30 rent will be charged from the Government servant. in the Public Works Department (except those in the Public Works Secretariat other than drawing establishment) as have been in continuous service on regular establishment form from a date prior to 1st April 1926, in accordance with the following principles:—
(a) in the case of those whose emoluments do not exceed Re. 50 per mensem
no rent will be charged.
(b) In the case of those whose emoluments exceed Re. 60 per mensem but do
not exceed Rs. 100 per mensem, rent will be charged at V per cent on the emoluments subject to the provision that the emoluments are not thereby reduced to less than Re. 50 per mensem
(c) In the case of those whose emoluments exceed Re. 100 per mensem, rent
will be charged according to rule 5.16 above subject to the proviso that the emoluments are not there by reduced to less than Rs. 95 per mensem.
Annexure- I
      Note -Artificers In the Irrigation Branch who were discharged and re appointed after, let June 1935, on the reduction of the scale of pay for artificers from Rs.5-1-75 to Rs.40-1-60 will continue to enjoy the rent concessions which they were enjoying under this rule prior to let June 1935.
5.31 - A competent authority may sanction remission of rent due for the occupation of a Government building when the building is rendered uninhabitable by reasons of extensive repairs being in, progress, or from any other cause, provided that if the occupier finds that the house has become uninhabitable he shall at once report the matter to the Executive Engineer in charge of the building, who will immediately inspect it and it and forward a report on the subject to the Superintending Engineer The latter will take such steps in the matter as he considers necessary reporting his action to the competent authority, who will then decide whether partial or total remission of rent is to ‘be allowed.
      Note In convenience caused by petty or ordinary annual repairs is Insufficient to warrant remission of rent which should be granted only when extensive structural repairs justifying in the opinion of the competent authority the vacation of the building are carried out.
      5.32 . When a building is occupied partly as a residence and partly as an office the capital value of the portion occupied as a residence should be se separately estimated for the purpose of rule 5.16. The cost of maintenance of the residential portion should also be separately estimated and accounted for. This is usually done on the basis of plinth area. Note -When (a) separate office accommodation is provided for the occupant and (b) the use of part of lila residence for office or business purposes I. optional, no deduction from the rent is permissible on this account. Where, however, a Government servant though provided with office accommodation elsewhere than in his residence, is in the opinion of the competent authority obliged to set apart a portion of his residence for the reception of visitors both official and nonofficial on business a deduction from the rent Is permissible on this account to the extent of half the	assessed	rent	of	the	accommodation	so	used.
      5.33 , In leasing, acquiring or constructing an official residence for any one of the Government servants mentioned in column 2 of the statement in rule &35, Government will arrange to provide accommodation for visitors in the shape of a waiting room, and for a Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner, quarters for a police guard. The accommodation so provided puts half of the room set apart for the reception of visitors will not be taken into account in calculating the standard rent fixed for such residence under rule 5.16.
      Note-I. Where waiting rooms have been set apart for visitors in residence of Gazetted Government servants entitled to rebate of rent under this rule rebate will also be allowed for the portion of verandahs, if any, attached to the waiting rooms.
      Note.2. The guards quarters and visitors waiting room with visitors Book shed and half of the room set apart for the reception of visitors in the Residence, of the Hon our able Chief Justice of the nigh Court, Lahore, are to be treated as non- resident portions for purposes of calculation of rent. Rebate of rent will be granted in respect thereof
      5.34 . A rebate of rent will be allowed to the Deputy Collectors of the Irrigation Department for the room in their residential quarters occupied by peons when administrative requirements necessitate their living in the room provided in the quarters and it I not used for Deputy Collector‘s private purposes.
5.35. In the case or privately owned buildings hired directly the Government servants mentioned in column 2 of the statement below for use
As residences the following concessions will be admissible when suitable accommodation (other than a mere open verandah) for visitors or in the case of commissioner or Deputy Commissioner for a Police grad as the case may be is set aside to the satisfaction of the authority mentioned in column 3 of the statement:-
i The rent of the waiting room half the rent of the room in which visitors are received and the rent of the quarter for the Police guard will be borne by Government .
ii The portion of the rent which is thus to be borne by government on account of the wafting and reception rooms and quarters for the police guard will be assessed by the Executive Engineer concerned on the value of the accommodation in question. Its amount will bear the same proportion to the rent of the premises occupied as the space occupied by the accommodation provided bears to the total plinth area of the building.
iii The portion payable for the waiting and reception rooms will be paid by the Executive Engineer to the landlord .He will also arrange with the police Department for the portion payable fro the quarter for the police guard being paid by that department as police contingent charge direct to the Government servant occupying the building:-\
   1CommissionersCommissioner of Division concerned.   2Deputy Commissioners   3Settlement officers Assistant Settlement officers Colonization and Assistant Colonization officer.   4Members of the Civil services of Pakistan or P.C.S in charge of subDivisionsDirector of Agriculture   5Principal Agricultural Collage Lyallpur   6Registrar High Court of Judicature at LahoreHonourable Judge of high Court.   7Inspector General of Police all Deputy Inspector	General of Police and all
superintendents of Police (except the Principal police and the Assistant to the inspector General special branchInspector General of Police   8Deputy Superintendent of Police placed in charge of Sub-Division.
5.36 Constant changes in the accommodation to be set apart for visitors are depreciated on principal but so only as these changes are necessary and are made for sound reasons Govt: Servants concerned can set apart
ANNEXURE I
different rooms during summer and on condition that the accommodation set apart:-
      (a) is to the satisfaction of their superiors.
      (b) is not less In area than that for which Government waives rent; and
(c) ii in excess of that originally reserved Government is not called upon to waive a large portion of the rent than that already fixed;
      (d) rent for Special Services.
5.37. If a residence is supplied with services other than water. Supply, sanitary, or electric Installation and fitting such as furniture, fans, tennis courts or gardens the cost of which is not taken into account in calculating the standard rent of the residence under rule 8.16 and which are maintained at the cost of Government, rent shall be charged for these in addition to the rent payable under rules 5.22 to 5.25. The tenants will also be required to pay the cost of water, electric energy, etc., consumed. The additional rents and charges will be fixed and recovered in full as below. A competent authority may, however, in very special circumstances and for reasons which should be recorded, waive or reduce the additional rent and charges for any of the special amenities referred to above.
Note -I.	The value of the site shall not be taken into account in calculating the
rent of special services under this rule.
Note—2	Where, however, It is not directed by general or special order—
(a) The value of the site, and the cost of its preparation shall be included In the capital cost of tennis courts and gardens .
(b) Departmental charges shall be included in the capital coat of furniture, callings fans, tennis courts and gardens as well as their maintenance, depreciation and storage charges. The percentages rates for maintenance, depreciation sad storage shall not be levied on the capital coat after the addition of the departmental charges but before such addition, Interest shall, however, be calculated on the capital cost Including departmental charges.
(c) The cost of sanitary, water .supply and electric Installations may be excluded from the capital cost of tennis courts and gardens.
      Should the cost of sanitary, water supply and electric installations be ordered to be excluded, rent for such installations shall be levied at the rates special under rule 5. 16 (a).
(vi) For cases in which the above provision will apply see paragraph of the Punjab Public Works Department Code, 2nd Edition.
Furniture
The rent shall be recovered at the rate of 15 per cent per annum of the capital cost as detailed below:—
(a) Maintenance ‘...	4 per cent.
(b) Interest		6 per cent.
(c) Depreciation Including renewals and replacement 6 per cent.
Total ... 15 per cent.
ANNEXURE]	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	CHAP-III
CEILING FANS
      The rent shall he recovered at the rate of 17 per cent per annum on the capital cost as detailed below and shall be recovered during the whole of the year:—
Rs.
(a)  Interest ..      4 percent.(b)  Depreciation. .     6 percent.(c)  Maintenance ..     4 percent.(d)  Storage Charges ..     2 percent.     Total : 17 per cent.
TENNIS COURSE
      Rent to be recovered for a tennis court should cover both interest on the capital outlay involved at the rate prescribed by the competent authority for the purposes of Rule 5.16(b) and average actual maintenance charges for the past three years. The charges which may be incurred in connection with the provision and maintenance of tennis courts. Are- In regard to courts in the plains-
      (1) Construction of the court and of retaining walls where necessary;
(2) Surfacing of the court With bajri , grass, cement, etc., at the time of construction. . in regard to courts in the hills-.
      (1) and (2) as in section A above.
(3) provision and election of posts and wire netting for the purpose of enclosing the court and of permanently . fixed posts for suspending lawn tennis nets;
      (4) provision and erection of fixture and appurtenances for hanged screens; and .
      (5) Maintenance of items 3 and 4 only.
Note.—1. The coat of providing and renewing tennis nets the marking of of courts the provision of screen, the maintenance of the surface of the courts and &so the maintenance of items (3) and
(4) In section B above, in so far as they relate to the court. in the plains, should on no account, be admitted as a charge against the State.
Note -2.	For the purpose of those rules the maintenance charges shall be revised after
every three years.
Note-2	. For the purposed of these rules the maintenance charges shall be revised after
three year s.
Note-3 see also note under the head (Garden) below.
      Both Interests on the outlay incurred at the rate prescribed by the com potent authority for the purposes of rule &16 (b) and actual maintenance charges should be recovered,
      The cost of planting shade trees, shrubs and hedges In the compounds of residential buildings, of transporting soil In a portion of the compound meant for a garden, If the nature of the existing surface soil renders such transportation necessary, In order to form a garden, of grassing plots, of sinking a well and of providing irrigation channels may be debited to public funds as capital
ANNEXURE — I
      Expenditure on the residence and included in the capital cost thereof for the purpose of assessment of standard rent. The maintenance of shrubs and hedges and of grass plots shall be a liability of the tenant. The salt-proceeds of timber shall be credited to Government.
Tennis court
      Note - if the capital outlay on the	is not known, it may be deter. Garden
mined by the Divisional officer with reference to the market value of similar tennis courts
		In the vicinity, gardens
WATER CHARGES
      Charges for water. Supplied to tenants of Government residential building are assessed as follows
(a) Every official occupying a Government quarter with a separate water connection must pay water charges including the meter rent as fixed by a Municipality, District Board of the Public Health Department. No exception will be granted in such cases.
(b) Where quarters have not been provided with separate water connections and the
occupants have to use outside and technically public taps, no water charges should be recovered from them.
(c) Where water tax as. Distinct from water charges is levied such tax is payable by the tenants.
      Exception—this rule does not apply to menials and other inferior Servants entitled to rent free quarters under item Tb in Appendix 7 to these rules Government Servants exempted in paragraph 3.16 of Punjab Public Works Department Code, Second Edition.
CLASSIFICATION OF RESIDENCES
5.38. Government Buildings intended for occupation as residences arc divided into two classes Class-I—Building which will ordinarily be occupied by Government servants liable to pay the full standard rent subject to the limit of 10 per cent of their emoluments.
Class-II—Buildings from which recovery of the full standard rent is not expected that is buildings which will ordinarily be occupied by Government servants who are entitled to accommodation rent free or at reduced rents under the sanction of competent authority. Note —I. The fact that a building in class I is occasionally occupied by a Government servant, who is entitled to accommodation rent free, or at reduced rents will not justify its removal from Class I to Class II, and similarly a building in class II should not be transferred to Class I whenever it is occupied by a Government servant who may be required to pay the full standard rent (subject to 10 per cent of emoluments), Buildings should be transferred from one class to the other only when there is a permanent change in the conditions under which they will ordinarily be rented transfers should be made the orders of the competent authority and should have in all cases from in all cameo from the commencement of a financial year.
Note-2. When a building in class II is occupied by any person who is not entitled to quarters rent free, the rent to be paid shall be fixed by the competent authority in general in accordance with the rules in this chapter.
       Note-3. In the forest Department Gazetted Government servant, not entitled to rent free accommodation are permitted to occupy quarters meant for free occupation on payment of rent, to be assessed by the Public Works Department under the rules in Ibis chapter.
      (g) General Rules and Instructions regarding allotment of residences.
5.39. The expression ‘allotted’ means —provided” and a Government servant residing in a Government residence before definite allotment may be regarded as having bee allotted that residence, Subject to the provisions to rule 5.45 the incumbent, permanent or temporary, of a post for whose benefit a residence has been constructed, bought or leased is allotted that residence,
      Note - A residence will not be held to have been allotted to a Government servant who shares it by private arrangement with another Government servant to whom it ha been allotted.
5.40. A Government servant shall not be considered to be in occupation of a residence when he- proceeds on leave, unless the competent authority otherwise directs.
5. 41 The period of allotment is determined as follows -
For a non migratory Government servant -
      (a) if the house have been constructed, purchased or tensed for the benefit of. a particular post) it is the period of incumbency, permanent or temporary, of each Government servant in that appointment, except in the case provided for in rule 5 .45
      (b) Otherwise it is for twelve months at a time, but terminates on his transfer form from the place where he is stationed, except in the case of a house in the hills occupied by a Government servant who is permitted to recess in the hills under the rules in force. In this case, the period of allotment is the period of recess enjoyed.
      Exception I— the staff of Punjab Vaccine Institute which is not sup - plied with rent free quarters at Lahore should be considered migratory Government Servants within the meaning of that term as defined the rule 2‘37 or the purpose only of allotment in Government residences at Lahore.
      Exception 2—In the case of the Political Assistant, Dera Ghazi Khan who has two headquarters, vis Dear Ghazi Khan and Fort Munro, the period of allotment for the residence provided for him at Dera Ghazi Khan and is from tat October to 14th April, and that for the residence at Fort Munro from 15th April to 30th September when be stays there.
      5.42. When, during a twelve months tenancy, a Government residence is vacated, owing either to the proceeding appointment having been altered or to his proceeding on leave the residence should, when this is possible and always when occupation of the residence is a condition of the tenure of the appointment, be allotted to his successor in office and rent recovered accordingly.
      When a Government servant takes over charge of and office entitling him to occupy a Government residential building, he should, apart from the usual charges certificate on assumption of office sign a supplementary certificate
      stating that he becomes responsible for the rent of the building from a given date. The relieved Government servant should similarly state that his responsibility for rent has ceased. A copy of this certificate should be sent Lo the Accountant-General and the Executive Engineer concerned to enable the former to exercise a check on the prompt recovery of tent and the latter to complete records, etc. A Government Servant will be held responsible for the rent until such date as he vacates the building and,
(a) after informing the Executive Engineer of the division in which the house is situated of the vacation, hands over the key to him or
(b) in the ease of relief by another official, furnishes the Executive Engineer concerned with the certificate referred to above.
      If an office does not tarry with it any responsibility for the rent of a building, the supplementary certificate will be blank and will be signed with a line drawn across it,
5-43.	(a) The sub-letting of an allotted residence may be permitted under the following
conditions by the Chief engineer, Public Works Department in charge of the building who should be addressed through the head of the tenant‘s department.
(1) That no Government servant who is eligible claims allotment.
(2) that the Government Servant to whom the residence is allotted remains personally
      responsible for the rent and any damage done to the residence beyond fair Wear and tear;
(3) that	Government	does	not	recognize	the	sub-tenancy;
(4) that the rent charged to the sub-tenant does not, except with the sanction of the Government exceed the rent payable to Government by the Government Servant to whom the residence is allotted;
(5) That the sub tenancy be only for the period of allotment.
(b) When the emoluments of a Government Servants whom a residence may be sublet are
greater than those of the Government Servant to whom the residence is allotted the 10 per cent limit will be applied to the higher of the two emoluments for the-period of the sublease.
(c) in such cases of subletting a Government residence when the lessor is not - entitled to rent free quarters of house-rent allowance in lieu but the lessee us so entitled, the rent payable by the lesser should be the rent payable by him, if he had not sub let the residence, or the rent payable by the lessee, if the residence had been allotted to him direct by Government other wise than free of rent, which ever is higher.
(d) When a Government re. lent is sublet and the lessor and the lessee are, or the lessor is, entitled to rent free quarters or house-rent allowance in lieu, the following procedure shall be adopted:-
(i)	When both the lessor and the lessee are entitled to rent free quarters or house-rent
Allowance in lieu, the lessor will pay to Government an amount equivalent to the higher of the two house-rent allowances; and -
      [ANNEXURE]	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[CHAP. III
(i) when the lessor is entitled to rent free quarters or house rent allowance in lieu and the lessee is not so entitled, the lessor will pay to Government an amount equivalent to the house rent allowance admissible to him or to the rent payable by the lease If the house less been allotted to him direct by Government whichever is higher.
      Note—I. In the ease of the quarters in the Rims and Chauburji Gardens Estates, Eaton,
       the Executive Engineer concerned is permitted to approve of the sublets.
Note—2. Whenever a residence cannot be allotted to the Incumbent of the post to winch It Is attached or to a Government servant of the class for which It was constructed. It may be let to a Government servant not holding the particular post or not belonging to that class subject to the conditions that-
      (i)	the allotment cases within two months of a Government servants for whom the
residence Is Intended becoming available at the station as a tenant and (ii) the rent to be recovered under the rules from the temporary tanant is less than of the standard rent of the house.
      A competent authority may relax the provisions of this note ass special case if considered necessary.
5.44. A competent authority may permit a Government Servant to store, at his own risk free of rent, his furniture and other belongings in a house, which has ceased to be allotted to him when both the conditions specified be. low are fulfilled
      (a) If the house is allotted to another Government servant under rule 5.41	(i)(a),
subject to, the condition that the latter does not require the residence and is exempted under rule 5.27 from responsibility for the rent.
      (b) In any case subject to the condition that arrangement cannot be made to the house
under pantograph 310 of the Public Works Department Code, First Edition.
5.45. If a Government Servant to whom a residence is allotted dies, Is dismissed from the service or retires from the service, the allotment to him of the residence shall be cancelled, with effect from one month after the date of his death, dismissal or retirement, as the case may be, or with effect from any date after such death, dismissal or retirement on which the residence is actually vacated, whichever is earlier. En such cases the recovery of rent should be governed by Rule 5.22 (6) supra, i. e. while the original allotment subsists, rent should be charged at the same concessional rate as was being paid by the Government Servant before his death, dismissal or retirement, as the case may be. Similarly the concession of rent free quarters, if it was granted In any	case,	should	continue	during	the	period	of	grace”.
5.46. . In the case of residences under the control of the Forest Department these rules should
be read as if the words —Public Works Department”, —Chief Engineer” and —Executive Engineer” were —Forest Department”, —Chief Conservator of Forests” and —Divisional Forest Officer”, respectively.
III—COMPENSATIONS
5.47. Claims to compensation made by Government Servants will ordinarily be considered only in cases in which 	
(1) The exposure of the property to risk is directly connected with the
      duties on which the Government Servant is employed at the
I
      time, e. g., when the action of an enemy or Insurgents of raiders or wild tribes on the frontier causes the loss of the property of the Government Servant employed in the area effected or ,
(i) the property is lost in consequence of the Go part of the Government Servant to save the Property of Government.
Which was also endangered at the time; or,
     (ii) the property is destroyed under the orders of competent authority
      Provided that the mere fact that, at the time of accident, the Government Servant is technically on duty or is living in Government quarters in which he is forced to reside for the performance of his duties will not be considered as a sufficient ground for the grant of compensation will not be granted to a Government Servant for any loss of his property—
(a) Which is caused by an act of God, e.g., earthquake, flood, etc., or
(b) which is due to an ordinary everyday accident which may occur to citizen, e. g., loss by theft: even when accompanied by violence or the result of a railway accident, fire, etc., or
      (c) Which is due in any way to negligence or other default on the part of the claimant.
Note-I. Claims for compensation will be considered Is respect of animals (I) which are killed, captured, or stolen by the enemy; (2) which are destroyed by order of competent authority to prevent the spread of infections or contagious diseases or (3) when the lose of the animal Is due to exposure or excessive work necessitated by ass In the public service or to an accident directly due	to	such	use.
Note -2.	Compensation is not admissible where, as a matter of ordinary prudence the
owner of the property could and should have incurred It. The question whether the property ought to have been insured is one of fact for the decision of the sanctioning authority. Failure to insure motor oars by their owners, will, however, considered as negligence within the meaning of this rule, and no compensation is admissible for any loss sustained by a Government servant who has omitted to insure his car. The kind of Insurance contemplated in this ease is the ordinary form of Insurance which most 4 motorists take out, the kind which a Government servant who buys a car with an advance torn Government Is required to take out, The ordinary policy provides fully against malicious damage, fire or theft, and it Is not considered necessary that Govern. 4.: meat servants should cover their cars against any but the risks provided against In ordinary	Insurance	policies.
5.48. When any one of the conditions in rule 5.47 is satisfied, a competent authority fly, as an act	of	grace	and	its	discretion,	rant	compensate	ion	.
to the Government Servant up to the then value of the necessaries lost. by him.
Explanation:- The question whether the articles lost are	—necessaries”
within the meaning of this rule will be determined by the sanctioning authority with reference to the Government Servant‘s personal standing and air. Circumstances care should be taken not to admit claims for articles which could clearly be regarded as unessential in the circumstances in which the Government servant was situated when the claim arose or which, an matter of ordinary prudence, Government Servants might have been expected to refrain from taking into such situations.
ANNEXURE -II
TO PARAGRAPH 3.8 OR CHAPTER III OF THE BUILDINGS AND ROADS
DEPARTMENT CODE
Extract of notification No.5 taken from Me Gazette of West Pakistan Services and
General administration Department No.S.O.V 11.7.22.57,
dated 7th September 1957.
5.	Official Residence—(l) the official residence of the Chief Minister shall be furnished by
the Government at a cost not exceeding Rs. 25,000 and that of every other Minister at a cost not exceeding Rs. 20,000. The furniture so provided may be carpets and one refrigerator but no other house holds effects.
      One bed-room in the residence may be air-conditioned.
2. The charges on account of water, electricity, two mates and a farash shall be borne by
the Government.
3. on occupying the official residence a Minister shall forward a list of furniture provided as
aforesaid, under his signature or the signature of any person authorized by him in that behalf, to the Executive Engineer, West Pakistan Public Works Department Incharge of the residence (hereinafter referred to as the Engineer).
      4. (a) A Minister intending to vacate his official residence shall himself of through his private Secretary, inform the Engineer in writing, of the date on which he proposes to vacate the residence and the Engineer shall, on the date so intimated, arrange to take charge of the furniture provided as aforesaid and issue a receipt therefore to the Minister.
(b)	In case of doubt as to the date on which the official residence was vacated, the matter
shall be referred to the vacating Minister whose decision shall be final.
Extract of notification No. 4 taken from the Gaaette of West Pakistan Services and General Administration Department No. S. 0. VII.
Services awl General Administration Department No. S.0.Vin 2-7-57, dated the 19th December 1957.
4. Official residence.—(i) The official residence of a Deputy Minister shall be furnished by
Government at a cost not exceeding ten thousands rupees.
(ii) The charges on account of water, electricity, and two malies for the residence shall be borne by Government.
(iii) On occupying the official residence the Deputy Minister shall forward a list of furniture provided as aforesaid, under his signature or the signature of any person authorized by him in that behalf, to the Executive Engineer Incharge of the residence (hereinafter referred to as the Engineer).
5. (a) A Deputy Minister intending to vacate his official residence shall himself or through his personal Assistant, inform the Engineer in writing, of the date on which he proposes to vacate the residence and the Engineer shall, on the date so intimated, arrange to take charge of the furniture pro a vided as aforesaid and issue a receipt therefore to the Deputy Minister.
      (b) In case of doubt as to the date, on which the official residence was vacated, the matter shall be referred to the vacating Deputy Ministry whose decision will be final.
CHAPTER	IV
MISCELLANEOUS RULES REGARDING OFFICE WORK, EXCLUDING ACCOUNTS PROCEDURE
A-INITIAL RECORDS OF ACCOUNT
4.1. The initial records upon which accounts of works are based are: —
      (a) The Mater Roll.
      (b) The Measurement Book.
      For work done by daily labour, the subordinate in charge of the work will prepare a muster roll which will show the work done by this, means and the amount payable on this account. For piece-work and for contract work guerilla, the measurement book will form the basis of Account. From the muster rolls the subordinate will prepare the labour re ports,, and from the measurement book the bills and accounts of contractors and suppliers will be prepared and checked by Or under the orders of the Divisional officer or of the Sub- Divisional Officer;
I-MUSTER ROLLS
4.2. The nominal muster roll, Buildings and Roads Accounts Form 21, is the initial record of the labour employed each day on‘ a work, and must be written up daily by the subordinate deputed for the purpose. . . (These should be issued from Divisional Office duly numbered and a record kept. All muster roll forms issued to subordinates should be signed on the top by the Divisional Officer as a safeguard against the possibility of unauthorized form being used.)
4.3. For all works or groups of works on which casual labour is employed, labour Reports in Stereo B. & R. Form No. 124 will be prepared by the Subordinate in charge daily and submitted the same day to the Sub-Divisional Officer in charge of the work. The reports should show the number of each class of laborers employed on each work or sub-head. Discrepancies between labour report and muster rolls, should be investigated as soon as the latter are received.
4.4. Charges for labour should be carefully scrutinized and the head —daily labour” should not include charges of any other kind however trifling. The‘ Divisional Officer and the Sub- Divisional Officer should devote special attention to this
4.5]
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	[Chap. IV
      subject as expenditure on daily labour paid against a muster roil is not supported by ordinary vouchers or receipts for payment. All work done through daily labour which are measurable should be detailed in the Measurement Books which should be submitted along with the muster roll for r check and scrutiny before payment.
(2) The payment of daily labour through a contractor instead of by muster roll is objectionable in principle, but if, in case of emergency, it be found - necessary to employ daily labour through a contractor, (this be done with the written order of Executive Engineer who should give the number and date on which to be employed). The subordinate in charge must submit to the Sub- Divisional Officer a daily report in Stereo B. and R Form No. 124 detailing the number of men employed through each contractor as daily labour submitting simultaneously a copy to Divisional Officer for cheek and record in his office. These reports will be retained by ‘the Sub- Divisional Officer and will form the basis of the payment made to the contractor.
(3) When daily labour is paid through a contractor, the labour reports should be headed —Labour supplied by Contractor.” To avoid disputes with the contractors, they and their authorized agent must sign the daily reports in token of their acceptance as correct.
II-MEASUREMENT BOOKS
(1) The measurement book must be looked upon as a most important record since it is the
basis of all accounts of quantities; whether of work done by labour or by the piece or by contract,
or of materials received; which have to be counted or measured. The description of the work
must be lucid so as to admit of easy identification and check.
(2) Detailed measurement may be dispensed with in of periodical repairs when the quantities are rein efficiency. maintained standard measurement
(3) Detailed measurements may also be dispensed with, in exceptional circumstances when there is no time to carry out detailed measurement and in such cases payments on account of work actually executed can be made on the certificate of the Divisional Officer to the affect that not less than the quantity of work paid for has actually been done, and in such cases he
Chap. IV)	MISCELLANEOUS RULES —	4.5
INITIAL RECORDS OF ACCOUNT
Will be held personally responsible tar any overpayment which may occur on the work in consequence. A second advance payment should not be made unless detailed measurements have been recorded in respect of any such advance payment previously made. Final payment should, however, in no case be made without detailed measurements.
Note—the payment made without the detailed measurement should in no cue exceed 75 per cent of the work actually done. Detailed measurem should then he taken within one month of making advance payment at the latest. The Divisional Accountant shall be personally responsible to bring the Infringement of the above rules to the notice of the Executive Engineer.
(4) Similarly the detailed measurements may be dispensed with in connection with the works done on lumpsum contract if a responsible officer (not below the rank of the Divisional officer ) Officer) certifies in the bill that by a superficial and general measurement or in some other suitable method, which should be specified, he has satisfied himself that the value of the work done is not less than a specified amount in conformity with the contract agreement, and that, with the exception of authorized additions . and alterations, the work has been done according to the prescribed specifications Detailed measurements must immediately be taken in respect of additions and alterations
(5) Every Officer making or ordering payment on behalf of Government should satisfy himself that work has been actually done in accordance with the bill submitted. For payment He- should inspect personally all the most important works before authorizing final payment, and should chock the measurements made by his subordinates as per scale laid by the Chief Engineer.
            Check measurement—(G) As measurements from the basis of all payments, a Sub-Divisional Officer must make all measurements himself for works the estimated cost for which is more than Es 25,000 (Twenty-five thousands) The Sub-Divisional Officer must check measure personally not less than the following percentage of the measurements made by his subordinates:-
(i) Works costing more than Rs. 5,000 and up to Rs. 25.000 a Sub-Divisional Officer check measure 35 per cent, of the cost of all such works.
(ii) Works costing Rs. 200 to Rs. 5,000 a sub Divisional Officer should check measure not less
4.5]	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT	Chap. IV
than 50 (fifty) per cent of the cost of all such works.
      (b) The above limits apply to settled sub-divisions and must in all cases be considered as the minima. At large construction works, it shall be within the discretion of the Divisional Officer to fix such limits as ‘he may consider sufficient to ensure adequate control over the expenditure.
(c) When a check measurement is made by a. Sub-Divisional Officer , the fact should b noted under his dated initials in the measurement book thus —
(d) Check measurement made by me on 	vide Measurement Book No	
Page	 The	subordinate concerned was/were not present when the measurement was
made.‘
(e) Ordinarily, the subordinate who did the original necessary check measurements if possible, before the sub original subordinate is under orders of transfer,. the Sub-Divisional Officer should make a special round of the section and do the necessary check measurements if possible,	before	the	subordinate	leaves.	-
(f) The Divisional officer is expected to keep in close touch with such check measurements in order to see that the Sub- Divisional Officers do them efficiently and promptly.
(g) With a view to safeguard against the risk of double payment check measurements made by the Sub-Divisional officer, should be entered in a separate. Measurement Book which should be labeled ‘Check Measurement Book‘ and at the end of each measurement the Sub-Divisional. Officer should record the following information —
(1) The number and the name o the estimate
(2) Date of Final payment.
(3) Number and page of subordinate ‘s measures Books.
(4) The quantity mead by the subordinate with date

MISCELLANEOUS RULES—INITIAL RECORDS OF ACCOUNT
(5) Proportion of the work checked by the Sub-Divisional Officer.
(6) Difference in quantities and reason, for any difference.
(h )	No payments are to be made on entries in a ‘check Measurement Book’ but it should be
submitted for inspection, audit and annual scrutiny in the same way as the ordinary measurement books
(i) The part selected for checking should be measured by the Sub-Divisional Officer in his own Check Measurement hook without reference to the original measurements and the totals compared. Cross reference should invariably be given The quantity measured should be such as forms a check on the hole (e.g. to measure the door and windows on of a rest house is no check on the whole). When the Sub-Divisional Officer‘s Check reveals differences not exceeding 2 per cent in the case of original works, 5 per cent in the case of repairs and 10 percent in the case of earth work whether it is in connection with original work or repairs the subordinate‘s entries for the portion checked should only be rectified according to the check measurements and a note to
The following effect inserted.
‘Corrected in accordance with check Measurement
Book No 	Pages	
      But when the differences exceed the above limits the whole work should be re-measured by the Sub-Divisional Officer himself and payments made thereon, the case being reported to higher	authorities	for	action	against	the	subordinate.
(j) Check measurement by Divisional Officer.
The Divisional Officer must check at least full 24 bills in a Financial year or 10 (ten) per cent of the total payment made in his Division in a financial year, whichever is more. Each final bill should have an abstract is check measurements relating to the work billed for attached to it besides the usual certificate of original measurements. The Divisional Accountant shall be. Personally responsible to see that this abstract is attached with every final bill. Omissions if any should be brought by him prominently to the notice of the Divisional Officer.
      (k,) In each office of Sub-Divisional and Divisional officers a record should be kept of payments made or measure
4.6-4.7	WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE	Chap. IV
      meat, recorded per month and check measurements made by Sub Divisional and Divisional Officers This be totaled at the end of the financial year and put up to Divisional Officer and inspecting Audit Officer and Superintending Engineer respectively at the time of Office inspections.
6.	In case of buildings only, regardless of the budget 1. head ‘under which financed Sub-
Divisional Officers are permitted to check the subordinates original measurements and unless errors in measurement or differences from sanctioned plans are in excess of those in 5 (i) above the Sub-Divisional Officer need not record measurements in his own check Measurement Book..
      The Sub-Divisional Officer must however, record, a certificate of cheek both in the subordinate‘s Measurement Books and in his Own Check Measurement Beth. In his own Check Measurement Book he should give an abstract as in 5(i) above.
      It is emphasized however, that strict supervision should be exercised against any abuse of this connection. The measurements of the foundations of the buildings and other works likely to be covered should, however,, be made invariably by the Sub-Divisional Officer himself and actually recorded before foundations are covered.
4.6 Each measurement book should be given a serial number by the Press which would appear in bold figures on the outer cover as well as on each page of the book.
      The pages of the book should also be machine numbered and no page should on any account be torn out, nor should an entry be erased or effected so as to be illegible. If a. mistake be made, it should be corrected by crossing out the incorrect words or figures and re-writing the words or figures, and the correction ‘thus made should be initialed. A reliable record is the object to be aimed, at, as it may have to be produced as evidence in a court of law.
4.7. Every measurement must be, recorded in the measurement book at the time it is taken and nowhere else. The - practice of entering measurements in note books and elsewhere and afterwards copying them into measurement books is strictly prohibited.
(2) The entries in the measurement book should, if possible, be made preferably in ink; but
‘when this is not possible.
Chap. IV]	MISCELLANEOUS RULES -INITIAL 4.8
RECORDS OF ACCOUNTS
      and entries have to be made in pencil, the pencil entries should not be inked over, but left untouched. The entries in the —contents. Or area” column should, however, be made in ink in the first instance and not inked over.
(3) In all case where payments for earth-work are to be made from longitudinal and cross sections prepared before the work is started, the levels for such works should b recorded in a special level book to be maintained by each subordinate for this purpose only. The levels on which the sections are plotted should be entered in ink and the quantities should be calculated from the above mentioned level data or from the calculated longitudinal and cross sectional areas plotted there from The calculations forming details of the measurement should be entered in ink in the special level book below the data of the final leveling on which the particular measurement is based. -
      These special level books together with the original plotting of the sections should then be treated with the same care and precision as laid down for measurement books as. being an initial record of measurements
(4) No measurements for the preparation of a bill should be accepted from an officer of lower standing than an Overseer. Certain exceptions to this rule are, however, allowed in the Buildings and Roads department -vide para 3.25 III (b) & (c ) of B and R Manual of orders
(5) The Superintending Engineer is required to make it his special duty during his tours to see that measurement books are carefully kept and measurements properly recorded, and that they are complete records of the actual measurements of each kind of work done for which certificates have been granted. He should also see that any orders of Government regarding check measurements are duly observed.
(6) When a. measurement book is lost, an immediate report should be made of the facts of the case, and this report must be promptly forwarded to Government, together with the explanation of all parties concerned, or responsible for the loss.
(7) All Measurement Books should be checked in the Sub- Divisional Office after
every three months by the Sub-Divisional Clerk under the supervision of the Sub. Divisional
Officer. At the close of the financial year all Measurement Books iii the Sub-Division should, however, be checked personally by the Sub-Divisional Officer to see that none is missing and they are properly maintained in: accordance with the rules. They should be checked twice a year in the Divisional Office in the mouths of July and January. The Divisional Head Clerk shall see at the time of each half yearly scrutiny that all. the Measurement Books in each Sub-Division are sent by the Sub-Divisional Officers in suitable batches so that not a single book remains to be sent by the Sub-divisional Officers in the Divisional Office. The Divisional Accountant will then be responsible t review the Measurement Books under the supervision of the Divisional Officer. No Measurement Book should remain in the Divisional Office for the purpose of review for more than a fortnight.
      Standard Measurement Book—(1) Standard Measurement Books should be maintained in accordance with the instructions contained in paragraph 210 of West Pakistan B. & 4. Account Code. The object is to reduce once and for all the labour of measuring up quantities that are done annually or at short intervals.
(2) A register for these books in Buildings & Roads Account Form No. 92, Part LI should be maintained in the Divisional and Sub-Divisional Officers which should be kept under lock and key iii. the custody of the Divisional Head Clerk and the Sub-Divisional Clerk concerned. These books should be numbered in an alphabetical series so as to be readily	distinguished	from	ordinary	measurement	books.
(3) In view of lie fact that these books will form the basis of both the annual repair estimates and contractors‘ bills for work done they should be written up either by the Sub-Divisional officer himself or by a subordinate under his orders. Each set of measurements taken by the latter class of official should, however, be fully checked by the Sub- Divisional Officer concerned. After which it should be examined by the Divisional officer and declared in writing in the book itself as finally approved by him for one or both of the purposes specified above. Until this is done, the book will not be entered in Register of Standard Measurement Books nor will number be assigned to it.
(4) The standard Measurement books will he brought up to date under the supervision of Sub-Divisional Officer with
Chap. IV]	MISCELLANEOUS RULES INITIAL 4.6
RECORDS OF ACCOUNTS
reference to any additions or alterations, which may. be carried out to the buildings or work concerned, within one month of. closing of the accounts of estimate therefore all such corrections will be duly attested by the Sub-Divisional Officer.
(5) The Divisional Officer will also be expected to exercise a check over the completion of
standard measurement books, from time to Lime, by personally examining each book at least once a year. To this end, the programme of work should ordinarily be as follows —
(a) As soon after the close of the financial year as Possible the Sub-Divisional Officer concerned will arrange for a personal examination of these books with a view to satisfying himself that they have been brought up-to-date with reference to the additions alterations or special repairs carried out in the buildings or work during the preceding year and submit them not later than the 15th September of the inspection of the divisional officer
(b) On receipt in the Divisional Office, the books will be compared with the register of
standard measurement books in order to ensure that all books have been submitted for inspection. They will then be subjected to such scrutiny as the Divisional Officer may direct. A comparison of these books with the accounts of expenditure and the record of connected measurements relating to estimates for additions, alterations or special repairs to buildings and works in the division, should, however, form a feature of the check to be applied.
(c) A report should be made to the Superintending Engineer so as to reach him not later than the 31st October of each year to the effect—
(i) That all the standard measurement books of
      the division have been inspected by the Divisional Officer;
(ii) that the entries made therein have not been
       tampered with;
(iii) that all corrections due to additions or alterations in the buildings or work concerned have been carried out; and
(vi) that the books are reliable and up-to-dale records.
      A copy of this report should be furnished to the Audit Officer. N.B-A .—A record of the results of scrutiny referred to should invariably be retained and produced if required for the Superintending Engineer or the Audit officer Inspections.
(6) When a payment is based on standard measurements the following certificate should, invariably be recorded on the bill, in the hand-writing of the Sub-Divisional Officer preparing, examining or verifying it:
—Certified that the whole of the work billed for herein has been actually done and that no portion thereof has been previously billed for in any shape.‘
Ill—Progress report of measurements on works executed -under contract
4.9. Every officer or subordinate in charge of a work carried out under contract should furnish to the Divisional Officer at the beginning ct each month a progress report of the measurements, and a calculation of the quantities of work paid for during the previous month, together with a return of all the materials at site on the last - day of the month (along with check measurement made by Divisional and Sub-Divisional Officer). And no such officer or subordinate should be relieved of his charge until after a careful inspection by his superior officer, or under the certificate granted by the re livening officer. It is the duty of the officer in charge to bring to notice any dilatoriness, bad work, or anything militating against the interests of Government on the part of the contractor;, and he will be responsible for any neglect in this respect. •
B—CUSTODY OF CASE
4.10. Public money in the custody of the department should be kept in strong treasure chest secured by two locks of different patterns, one of which may be a Sparing lock or such other lock as may from time to time be prescribed by the Chief Engineer. In Sub-Divisions, the key of this special
      lock shall remain in the personal custody of the Sub-Divisional Clerk, neither key may be entrusted even temporarily to any other person.
(2) In Divisions the Divisional Officer will have charge o the key of the special lock
      and	the	Head	Clerk	of	the	other	lock.
(3) When a cashier is appointed to a Division, the key of the special lock will remain
      in his custody and the key of the other lock with the Head Clerk.
(4) Where burglar proof cash chests are used with one fixed lock which is operated upon by three keys numbered 1, 2, 3 in rotation, keys numbered I and 3 will be treated as of the special lock and key No. 2 of the other lock for purposes of the above rule.
(5) The duplicate keys of the Divisional and Sub-Divisional treasure chests shall, under the seal of the Divisional Officer concerned, be placed in the custody of the Treasury Officer in the jurisdiction of the Division concerned and a —Duplicate key Register” maintained in each Divisional Officer. Once a year in the month of August, the duplicate keys should be sent for from the Treasury Officer, examined, and returned to him under a fresh seal, a note being made in the register that they have been found correct‘.
(6) The treasure chest shall never be opened unless both custodians of the keys are present and both of them should remain present while it is open and until If is again locked.
(2) 1	. In order to minimize the risk of loss of public money, all impress should be kept
as low as possible, being reduced in amount whenever circumstances render this possible.
(3) Wherever practicable imprest holders should be supplied with small iron cash boxes but in any case the imprest holder is responsible for the exercise of proper care in the custody of cash and in case of loss the onus of proof that proper care was exercised will	lie	with	him.
(4) In no circumstances is it permissible for private money to be mixed up with public money or even to be kept in the same cash chest where such a chest is provided by Government,
(5) All cash receipts by the officer Incharge should be initialed.
(6) If a Government servant who is not Incharge of a cash book receives money on behalf of Government at exceptional times, he should pay or remit it at the earliest opportunity to the nearest officer having a cash chest or direct into a treasury. The acknowledgement of the Treasury should be forwarded to the next superior officer having a cash book, to enable him, to make the necessary entries therein. The record of the transaction will be in the correspondence and not in the imprest account of receiving officer.
C—CASHIERS
2. 12. ' With the sanction of Government the cashiers may be appointed whenever the cash transactions of a Division or Sub-Division are sufficiently extensive to require it.
413. One cashier may make the cash payments of two or ‘more Divisions or Sub-Divisions or throughout the whole of a Division, whenever such an arrangement is found to be practicable.
4-14. The Divisional Officer or the Sub-Divisional Officer, as the case may be, will count the cash in the hands of each cashier at least once a month; or in the case of out-stations, he will count it whenever he may visit them. He will on such occasion record a note in the cash book showing the date of* examination and the amount (in words) found. In order to minimize the chances of temporary misappropriation ‘of money surprise count must be made as often as possible -b Divisional Officers in addition to the above monthly count, and this should be carried out whenever possible. (The balance by actual count should moreover be compared with the cash book balance and excess or deficit, if any, noted in the cash book and reported to the immediate superior as well as the audit officer.
D—stores
I—General
415. The stores of the Buildings and Roads Department are divided into the following classes, viz. Stock, or general stores, (ii) Tools and Plant, (iii) Road metal and (iv) Material charged ‘direct to works. The officer Incharge of a Sub-Division will be responsible for all the stores belonging to it.
Chap. IV] MISCELLANEOUS RULES -STORES [4.46-4. 17)
416. -	A Divisional Officer is responsible that proper arrangements are made throughout his
Division for the custody of public property. He must be careful to keep all tools and implements in efficient order, must protect surplus stock from deterioration and provide suitable accommodation for valuable and combustible stores which would prevent the possibility Li large losses by fire or other accident.
(b) Tools and Plant belonging to the Department may be hired to other Government Departments, local bodies and bona fled contractors by a Divisional Officer on the following conditions
(i) That reasonable hire is charged. in all cases.
(ii) That the period of hire is fixed in advance^ and shall in no case exceed three months
(iii) That ample precautions are taken for the due return of the articles in good condition
(iv) A loan of tools -and plant of a value exceeding
Rs 1,000 shall be reported at once to the superintending Engineer
(v) That proper accounts are kept in the Divisional office of all such transactions, duly supported by acknowledgements of borrowers. The hire to be charged will be fixed by Divisional officer and will be recovered in advance.
(vi) Ordinary tools and plant such as phaurahs pick axes, rammers, etc., should not be lent to contractors.
NOTE+ When tools arid plants are lent outside the Department, a hire charge of 5 per cent per menaum on the original purchase price of the plant should be levied for the entire period the plant is away from the Division concerned. In addition to the above hire charge, the borrowing Department must pay carriage charges of the toils sad Ideate both ways and be responsible for the coat of running repairs as distinct from special overhaul. The cost of special overhaul should be borne by the Division to which the plant and machinery belong.
(c ) No stores should be sold the any private individual or to any Non-Buildings and Roads body. The Buildings and Roads store is only meant for the works executed by Buildings and Roads and in no circumstances be given to any other individual or agency.
4.17. Every officer is bound to take charge of departmental stores which, from the death or departure of the person
lately in charge, or from any other cause, may be left at or near his station without adequate protection.
II—A requisition and manufacture of stores
4.18. Stocks, road metal and other materials required in ordinary course for the execution of sanctioned works may be procured on the responsibility of the Divisional Officer with- out special authority subject to the provisions of sub-pars. Graph (3) below, though the Superintending Engineer‘s approval should be obtained to the measures proposed for the purchase of stock in large quantities. If the stores are to be manufactured a separate estimate for their preparation may be required, as laid down in paragraph 4.24 et esq.
(2) Once the necessity for the purchase of stores, with reference to the requirements of a particular work or works has become obvious, it is not business-like to make the purchase in driblets. A comprehensive indent should be prepared, and where stores of the same nature are required for more than one work in a Division the Divisional Officer should endeavor, whenever possible, to prepare a combined indent.
(3) once to purchase materials of any kind should not be issued by an authority lower than that of a Divisional Officer. The powers of officers to sanction purchase of stores, etc., are contained in Annexure A of chapter II of this Code. Should cases aries where a Sub-Divisional Officer makes a purchase in an emergency he should take immediate steps to get the purchase regularised.
(4) Care should be taken not to purchase stores much in advance of actual requirements, if such purchase is likely to prove unprofitable to Government.
419. The articles comprised under the head —Tools and Plant” can only be purchased or manufactured on estimates sanctioned by competent authority.
4.20 The general rules for the supply of articles required for the public service, whether of indigenous origin or otherwise, and instructions for the preparation and submission of indents and annual estimates of European stores are given in Appendix V. With regard to indents for stores obtainable from other departments attention is invited to rule 7 of Appendix V ad to paragraphs 422 and 4.34 of this Code,
Chap. V]	MISCELLANEOUS RULES -STORES.	[4.20
(2) The restrictions imposed by the Stores Rules do not apply to purchases made by or on behalf of Pakistan States, municipalities or Local Funds, excepting when the stores F purchased are paid for from Government revenues on behalf of Government or from funds advanced by Government .In the latter circumstances Government may, however, direct that the provisions of the Stores Rules need not apply. When & Buildings and Roads Department Officer caries out a work for any of the Local Bodies or States referred to above these rules shall apply, except when the local body or State specially desires to have the stores purchases otherwise and Government has accorded its approval thereto, which will be given only on the understanding that the stores must be approved by the officer carrying out the work before the purchase concluded.
(3) Sometimes the stories purchased and inspected by West Pakistan Stores Department have to be rejected. In such cases the final rejection of stores lies within the competence of the West Pakistan Stores Department alone as that Depart- mat is a contracting party, and it is not permissible for an .indenting officer or consignee to reject stores which have been accepted by that Department. In cases in which an intending officer, considers that grounds for the rejection of such stores exist, a full report should be forwarded immediately to the West Pakistan Stores Impartment concerned and the goods complained of should be stored pending investigation by that Department and the issue of final instructions as to their disposal. Should i be decided that the stores should be rejected, intimation to this effect will be furnished immediately to the contractor by the West Pakistan Stores Department, and he will be informed that the stores lie at his risk from the date of such rejections and. that if not removed within a fortnight of ‘rejection, the consignee will have the right to dispose of the stores as he thinks fit at the contractor‘s	risk	and	on	his	account.
      Cases frequently occur in which stores are dispatched to their destination after merely a visual examination at the contractor‘s premises, works or godowns on the understanding that their final acceptance or rejection shall depend on the results of the tests carried out at the Government test house. In such cases, if the stores are rejected the contractor will be informed at once, and the stores will lie at the consignee‘s depot at the contractor‘s risk from the date such rejection
       and if not removed within a fortnight of rejection, the consignee signee will have the right to dispose of them as he thinks fit at the contractor‘s risk and on his account.
       Similarly, Stores which are rejected by the Inspecting Officer appointed by the West Pakistan, Stores Department, after delivery under the terms of the contract for inspection at the consignee‘s depot, will lie at the consignee‘s depot at the contractor‘s risk from the date of such rejection, and if not removed within a fortnight of rejection, the consignee have the right to dispose of them as he thinks fit at the contractor‘s risk and on his account. —
       Stores rejected in the circumstances indicated, above and not removed by the contractor within the period allowed for such removal should be disposed of by the consignee, either by return to the contractor or in such other manner as he considers most suited to the circumstances in each case, with the least possible delay.
421. The policy of the Government of the West Pakistan is to make their purchases of stores for the public service in such a way as to encourage the development of the industries of the country, and especially of the West Pakistan, to the ut -most possible extent consistent with economy and efficiency. All indents for demands for imported materials should accordingly be carefully scrutinized by the sanctioning authority with a view to judging whether articles are being indented for from abroad which could equally economically and satisfactorily be obtained from local manufacturers.
       All indenting authorities should send their indents, with five spare copies, to the Director of Industries (Store Purchase Wing).
(2) It often happens that the stores received from abroad through the Director of Industries discharged from a steamer in Pakistan in a damaged condition or deficient in quantity and in order to avoid serious Loss to Government thereby, the Government Agent at the port of landing should be instructed in every case to examine carefully the packages landed. If the goods are received in good condition and intact a ‘good condition” certificate should be furnished by him along with the goods. Rut in case deficient or damaged cargo is discharged from the vessel, or the same appears to have been tampered with, he shall cause a survey to be held by representatives of all
Chap.‘	MISCELLANEOUS RULES STORES	4.22
      interests concerned and furnish to the consignee a survey report in the following form
‘Proceedings of the Committee of Survey assembled at
on - dated for the purpose of examining and reporting on the under mentioned cargo landed ex	SS 	from		voyage No.— dated-		arrived at
port from on	
 Members of the Committee—
(1) Representative of the shipping company.
(2) Representative of the consignees.
(3) Representative of the Port Trust, if concerned. The committee having met proceed to examine the Packages and find them as follows: —
Number or marks .f packages .Description of contentsSynopsis of receipt given to shipWhether protest noted and extended with datesRemark as to cause of damagedEstimated coat of reconditioning or replacement
Signed
(By all parties represented).
      N.B. In order to facilitate the settlement clams it is imperative that the above details should be given.
      The Assistant Controller of stores North Western Railway Karachi shall represent Buildings and Roads Department on such committee of survey.
      It is preferable to settle claims in Pakistan as far as possible but when a settlement cannot be reached in Pakistan a copy of the report should be sent to the Director of Industries (Store Purchase Wing) Lahore to enable him to formulate claims against ship owners aboard
4.22. Emergent indents on other Departments in Pakistan may be submitted only in cases of actual necessity (which
423—4-27	PUBIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE (CHAP-IV
Must be reported to the Superintending Engineer- when serious inconvenience could be likely to arise from the submission of indents in the ordinary way. Emergent indents will nevertheless be complied with at once on the responsibility of the indenting officer, and will then be submitted by: the corn: plying officer for the necessary countersignature, so that the Superintending Engineer may exercise a check over such demands.
4-23 All articles of iron work which have not to be obtained from abroad in accordance with the Store Rules and which cannot be conveniently made up in divisional workshops, may be procured on indent from‘ any Government workshop authorized to undertake work for other departments. The orders in the Store Rules regarding the Pakistan firms to which orders may be given for articles to be manufactured out of tin- ported materials, should be closely, followed, - 4.24. The manufacture or collection of material involving an outlay of Rs. 10,000. or upwards, must in all cases he covered by a detailed estimate showing the proposed out lay and the	material	to	be	received.
4.25. If the material be for -a work already duly ‘Sanctioned , or for reserve stock within the sanctioned limit for the Division, the estimate will merely require the approval of the Superintending Engineer, but in all other cases the estimate must be duly sanctioned	by	competent	authority,	as	though	for
an original work.
III-RESERVE OF STOCK
4-26. Where it is necessary in consequence of the delay that should otherwise occur in manufacture or procuring materials, to collect a reserve supply of stories and as these stores cannot be debited at once to any specific work since it is, not known on which work they may be used such stores may e accounted for in a suspense account stock .
4-27. ordinarily, materials should be purchased only for works in progress, and petty stores obtained, it possible, from a supplier who should enter into a contract for them at schedule rates, and no reserve of stock should be kept. But in the case of any Division in which, owing to it-s remoteness from markets or for any other reason, it may bee considered absolutely necessary that a reserve should be maintained a limit of
reserve stock will be fixed by competent authority, and, when this has been done, the Divisional Officer is authorized, subject to the approval or sanction of the estimate therefore where required by the provisions of paragraph 4.25, to purchase or manufacture, to an extent sufficient to keep his stock up to that limit, the sanction of superior authority being required only when it is desired to exceed it. The fixed maximum should be kept at the lowest point compatible with efficiency, and the stock returns . of Divisions should be carefully scrutinized by Superintending Engineer from time to time with reference to this point.
Note.—The powers delegated to the various officers of the Buildings and roads Department to section maximum limits of reserve stock of a Division temporarily are given in Annexure B to Chapter II of this code
I V—Stock-taking
4.28 . It is not necessary that all the stores of a Division or of a Sub-Division, should be checked and, counted at the same time; and the stock-taking may be arranged so as to go on gradually in the manner most convenient to the officers concerned, but when checking the stores of any subordinate‘s section, the Sub-Divisional‘ Officer must check the whole and not a part only of the stores in that section. These checks and counts of stores should, as far as possible, be made without previous notice, so that the full value of a surprise check may be obtained. It is also essential that the greatest possible precision and accuracy should be maintained in the store returns, and the Divisional Officer should make‘ such arrangements as art calculated to ‘secure this result, and the Superintending Engineers are responsible that this is done The dates on which articles ‘ stock of are to be entered ‘in the store returns.
4.29 . As regards ‘the Sub Divisional Stores, the stocktaking will. be carried out by the Sub-Divisional
Officer in charge of the stores at least once within a period of one financial year.
       Important stares should, as a rule, be counted by an office not below the rank of a. Sub-Divisional Officer. The Superintending Engineer should occasionally‘ depute an officer from one Division to take stock of another. The ‘idea is that verification should be entrusted to an officer independent of and unconnected with the staff responsible for, the custody of the stores of surprise check
4.30 PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE [Chap. IV
4.31 All articles of stock (not including tools and plant which are Hot likely to be required during the following 12 mouths, should be reported to the Divisional Officer who will if necessary, take the Superintending Engineer‘s orders as to their disposal
430. All the stores of a Sub-Division must be checked each half year by the, subordinate in charge of the section. Each Overseer will prepare half-yearly distribution lists of stock and yearly for tools and plant showing the closing balances and will certify distinctly that he has checked the stores recording the results of such cheek. These will be submitted to the Sub-Divisional Officer, who will note on each distribution list whether or not he has also personally checked all the stores in accordance with the instructions in paragraph 418 and if not, will state the previous year or half year in which these stores were checked and the name of the Sub-Divisional Officer who made the cheek.
      See footnote an nest page.
Note—The word —checked” appearing in paragraphs 4 .28 and 4.30 means’ —counted” where the unit is numerical, —weight.” where it is weight and —measures where It I. linear, superficial or volumetric. A mere inspection to see that the articles are there ii not what is intended
(2) The half-yearly and yearly returns and distribution lists will be checked in the Divisional Officer and care taken to, see that all stores have been counted, and that the Sub-Divisional - Officer has checked a sufficient quantity. all the stores. of a SubDivision must be counted by the Sub-Divisional Officer (at least repeat at least once a year). A Sub-Divisional Officer transferred to a new Sub-Division should obtain the distribution lists for the proceeding one year or (two half years), as the case may be, from the Divisional Officer and note which stores, if any, remain to be counted. In the case of shortage of stores, it shall not be accepted as an excuse for not bringing home to any one the responsibility for the shortage that frequent transfers prevented any Sub-Divisional Officer from fully counting the stores in the Sub-Division. When one Overseer is relieved by another, the Sub-Divisional Officer must see that a distribution list of all stores in a Section is prepared, the stares counted and a certificate of the count given on the lilt by both overseers. The distribution lists will be carefully filed in the Divisional Office. (This is prior responsibility of Divisional and Sub-Divisional Officer and no Overseer be relieved tin it is done). ‘ While signing the Last Pay Certificate
 Chap.IV	MISCELLANEOUS RULES -STORES [4.3I)
certificate of an Overseer the Divisional Officer should see that the above orders have been duly complied with. At the same time he should ensure that the Last Pay Certificate is not delayed unnecessarily and it is issued within a week of the handing over of charge properly by the Overseer.
(3) So far as the. checking of stores by the Divisional Officer is concerned he should exercise a cent per cent check of stores at the Divisional Headquarter and to the extent of 10% at Sub-Divisional Headquarters and others. Disciplinary action shall be taken against the Sub-Divisional Officers and Divisional Officers for any declarations of, the above orders. If any large discrepancies or deficiencies are found in the stores account at any time all the Sub-Divisional Officers and Divisional Officers who had previously given incorrect certificate regarding the results of checks made By them will be held responsible. In their own interests therefore the officers concerned should carry out the above duties very carefully”:
V—Depreciations of plain and machinery
431. The following rates of depreciation for the articles of Tools, Plan and Machinery, etc., should be adopted for a period of five years.
For evaluation of working out cost.
For evolution of working our cost
S.NoDescriptionRate    1Scientific instruments (including Electrical and drawing instruments )5    2Plants and machinery10    3Tools15    4Navigation plan (except country boats5    5Country boats12    6Camp equipage10    7Livestock15    8Furniture in offices Rest house and Bungalows (except enameled articles)5    9Ditto Ditto Ditto10   10Motors Lorries and Cycles20
4.32 -4.35) PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE [Chap. IV
NOTE—(I ) Ii the case motor Lorries interest charges should be calculated at 6 per cent per annum on the capital coat.
Note—(2)	The percentage rate for depreciation mentioned above is with reference
to the original coat of the article, i.e., the value of the article is to be depreciated annually with reference to the original coat and not with reference to the reduced cast arrived at after making each year‘s reduction calculated at the fixed percentages shown above. The annual reduction on account of depreciation charges is only to be effected m respect of articles which have been actually used during any — of year concerned, except in the case of perishable articles such as office furniture, touts rope, eta., etc., in which case the reduction is to be effected annually.
4-32. Unless specially authorized to write off finally the irrecoverable value of stores, etc., Divisional Officers should in case of any robbery, loss or destruction by fire or otherwise of Public Stores, submit a report to the Superintending Engineer who will, if necessary, report the matter to the higher authority for orders. A copy of this report should be enclosed to ,Audit Officer. The Divisional Officer will, in every use, hold a departmental inquiry and recorded the evidence and his finding especially in the matter of responsibility and capability of the persons concerned
4.33 An immediate report of the loss of stores must also be made to the police, and all proper steps taken for the recovery of the property When an inquiry is held either by the police authorities or others, the Divisional Officer must, in cases where he is not himself authorized to write off the value of the property, obtain and forward, as soon as possible, to the Superintending Engineer,..a copy of the proceedings.
4.34 When stock materials are issued on account of works executed for the public and other departments, in workshops at their full value, an addition of 10 per cent must be made to cover charges on account of supervisions apart from stories not provided for in the rates fixed as per-paragraph 118 of West Pakistan Account Code. The 10 per cent supervision charge may, however, be waived by the officer empowered to sanction the sales in the case of surplus ‘stock, which, in his opinion, would otherwise be unsalable.
      In this paragraph the term —full value” means market value unless it is less than the value ‘at current issue rate in which case the latter should be taken. 4.35 At the end of each financial year, lists of surplus stores should be prepared and printed for circulation amongst all Divisional? Circle Regional ‘and other departments and
CHAP. IV)	MISCELLANEOUS RULES STORES [4. 37—4.38
       Railways, report all proper explanations must be given, and the period stated during which the articles have been in store or in use and the cause of deterioration.
Note (1) Ml stores of the same description should be town under the one item and one uniform issue rate fixed for it. Standard unite should be prescribed for all article of stores as far as practicable. For instance, , R. S Beams and other metals should be shown in the same lists either in cwts, maunds , or feet. similarly paints should be shown in tins, gallons or seers. Sub-Divisional Officers should personally see that the same units are adopted for articles of similar nature with a view to minimizing the number of units in nomenclature	as	for	as	possible.
Note (2) while declaring the stereo surplus detailed reasons should be given as to why the stores were purchased in excess of actual requirements and why it was not possible to do without them in the first instance. While furnishing these reasons to the Superintending Engineer, the Divisional Officer should send a copy of the list of surplus stores together with the date of purchase and reasons of declaring them surplus to the Audit officer (Director, Audit and Accounts(works), West Pakistan , Lohore.
4.35 When‘ stock materials have merely depreciated in value while remaining serviceable,
either through deterioration of quality or through a fall in market price, their book value should be reduced by writing off under proper sanction a sufficient sum to bring the book rate down to a fair market rate (but every step be taken to dispose of store before depreciation so that Government	is	not	put	to	loss).
4.36 Stores which are completely under serviceable, should be written oil and either sold by auction or destroyed, as may be ordered by the authority sanctioning the writing off. —When the unserviceable stores are destroyed the fact should be certified in the survey report as well a in the relevant registers by the Sanctioning Authority in whose presence the material will be actually destroyed.
1) 37. No public stores may be sold otherwise than by public auction, without the permission of the Superintending ding Engineer, Commission, which ordinarily not exceed 5 per cent may be allowed to the auctioner not being a departmental subordinate.
       Note—no stores should be sold to private individuals. For any stores issued to loss! bodies the cost thereof should be realised in sash before the materials actually transferred”.
VI—Mathematical instruments
2) 38	(1) All new instruments required for the Buildings and Roads Department, which
have been provided for in a sanctioned estimate, other than leveling staves, should normally be obtained by indent through the Store Purchase Officer, Lahore, but may be obtained locally with the approval of the
3) 39-4.40)	] PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT Code	(Chap. IV
Superintending Engineer, in emergent cases, and with the approval of the Chief Engineer in other cases.
4) ) New leveling staves should be obtained through the Store Purchase Officer, Lahore but if not available there, the Chief Engineer may, however, sanction local purchase of leveling staves only in emergent and exceptional cases.
5) )	Instruments requiring repairs may, however, be entrusted to a Local Manufacturing
Firm, after calling for quotations.
6) ) Instruments when the cost does not exceed Rs. 50 all indents of Mathematical Instruments should be accompanied by a certificate by the indenting officer to the effect that the supply of articles detailed therein is covered by a sanctioned estimate.
4-39. All officers and subordinates to whom surveying and mathematical instruments are entrusted will be held per- sonally responsible that they are carefully handled and maintained in good order. When repairs become necessary, the instruments should be forwarded to the Sub- Divisional or Divisional Office for the purpose without delay, spare instruments * being supplied for use in the mean time, if necessary. The cost of all repairs will be borne by Government, but where damage has resulted from negligence the officer responsible for damage should be made to pay for the damage done or otherwise suit- ably dealt with.
(2) Superintending Engineers should satisfy themselves that surveying and mathematical instruments in the various offices and Divisions under them are sufficient in number and are maintained in good serviceable condition, and that no instruments are kept in excess requirements.
(3) When any instrument is transferred, it should be care- fully examined before dispatch by the Sub-Divisional officer or the Divisional Officer, as the case may be, and no instrument which on examination proves to be out of working order should be transferred.
E—STORE KEEPERS
(4) 40 when the stores are sufficiently extensive, a store keeper will be appointed to the charge of them. The storekeeper will have nothing to do with the disbursement of cash the supply of materials or the preparation of bills. His duties will be confined to the custody, preservation and
Issue of the
      (4.41-4.44 MISCELLANEOUS RULES TRANSFER	CHAP. IV]
OF CHARGE
Stores under his charge, and to keeping the required returns relating to them.
F-Loss of Cash
441. imprest holders, Sub-Divisional Officers and Divisional officers should at once report any loss of cash o his immediate officers Divisional Officers and Superintending Engineers while reporting the loss to their immediate superior should send a copy of the same or such relevant extract from it as are sufficient to explain the exact nature of loss and the circumstances which made it possible. —A copy of the report should be endorsed by the Divisional Officer to the Audit Officer also”.
G-RULES FOR DIVISIONAL WORKSHOP
4.42. The Divisional Workshops may be treated as a District Sub-Divisional or they may form a portion of a Sub- Divisional charge, according to their size and importance. (2) No work is to be undertaken in workshops of the Department other than work required for the various branches of the Department, except under some general or special order of the Chief Engineer.
4.43. No work should be undertaken for municipalities or private parties before the whole estimated cost, including all charges for supervision profits, etc., that may be leviable under the rules for the time being in force , has been paid to the Divisional Officer or into a Government Treasury to the credit of the Division concerned of the Buildings and Roads Department. In all cases prior to work being put in hand, an undertaking should be procured from the party concerned that it will not hold the Department responsible for loss by fire or theft or any other factor which could not be foreseen when the estimate was prepared. In cases where it is found that the original estimate is likely to be appreciably exceeded, a revised estimate should be prepared and the procedure outlined above adopted.
H—TRANSFERS OF CHARGE
I—GENERAL
4.44 An officer must not delay making over charge after the arrival of the relieving officer; not must he, without a medical certificate or the permission of his immediate superior officer, leave the station before the arrival of his successor.
445. The relieving officer will take up the expenditure of cash and store from and for the first day of the account month during which the relief took place, and submit the next monthly accounts in the same manner as if he has been in charge during the whole month. But the relieved officer remains responsible that proper explanation is forthcoming for transactions during his incumbency
4.46.	. If the relieving officer fails to bring to notice within a reasonable period any
deficiency or defect in work of stores taken over from his predecessor, he will be held responsible .le for the same, both as to quantity and quality, so far as he was in a position to ascertain it.
Note- Reasonable periods during which a relieving sub-Divisional Officer, over seer, will make a complete cheek of all the works encroachments, road side materials and stores (including tools and plant) in hi. Sub-Division /section, and report defects or efficiency in regards to them will be S months from the date of his take over charge of the Sub. Division/Seaton. Failure to carry opt a complete inspection within this period will be regarded as a serious irregularity. In the case of hwy tract this period will be two months if the whiter months intervene.
447. In the case of any sudden casualty occurring or any emergent necessity arising for an officer to quit the Division, Sub-Division or work to which he is posted, the next senior officer of the Department present will take charge When the person who takes charge is not of the Indian Service of Engineers, Punjab Service of Engineers, Bahawalpur Service of Engineers, Sind Service of Engineers, Khairpur Service of Engineers, Provincial Service of Engineers, N-W-F- P, Temporary Service of Engineers of old Balochistan State Union, including Temporary Engineers of all integrating Units, Subordinate Engineering Service, he must at once report the circumstances to his nearest departmental superior, or, in the absence of such an authority, to the commanding officer in a Military Station, and in —other cases, to the nearest civil officer, and obtain orders as to the cash in hand, if any.
4.48- A register of incumbents of charges should be kept in every (circle office) and Divisional Office showing the period of incumbency of each officer who has held charge of the Divisional and of the several ‘Sub-Divisions, and, in each Sub- Divisional Office, a similar register of the incumbents of that. Sub-Division (and also of the overseers).
II—Divisional and Sub-Divisional Officers
449. in the case of transfers of Divisional and Sub Divisional charges, the cash book or imprest account should
Chap. IV]	MISCELLANEOUS RULES TRANSFER 4.49
OF CHARGE-
be closed on the date of transfer and a note recorded ‘in it, over the signature of both relieved and relieving officers, showing the cash and imprest balances and the number of unused cheques, made over and received in transfer by them respectively. A copy of this note together with the following documents should be forwarded the same day to the Superintending Engineer in the case of Divisional, or to tlw Divisional Officer in the case of Sub-Divisional charges.
(I )	Transfer report Buildings and Roads Stereo Form No. 80 being used in the case of
Sub-Divisional
charges.
(ii) Receipt of stock, tools and plant and other stores under the immediate charge of the relieved officer Forms A and B being used for Divisional and Sub- Divisional charges respectively
(ii)i A detailed report (Buildings and Roads Stereo Form No. 35 on the state of surveying and mathematical instruments. In the case of transfer of Divisional charges this report should be in respect of instruments at headquarters only.
(2) The receipts of cash and stores balance should be prepared by the relieved officer, but the relieving officer should note any in-accuracies therein so that the Superintending Engineer or the, Divisional Officer, as the case may be, may pass such orders in respect of any deficient articles as may be necessary A copy of the receipts may be (given to the relieved	officer,	if	desired	by.	him.
FORM A
      Received in transfer from A. B, Late Divisional. Officer,	
Division, the stores in his personal charge as detailed in the annexed list.
      The balance returns of stock and fools and plant in. charge, of all Sub-Divisional Officers for the half-year and year ending		respectively are on record, and
the Divisional stock returns have been prepared to end of 	
C. D,
Divisional Officer,
(Station and date)	Division
PUBLIC WORKS-DEPARTMENT CODE [Chap. IV
FORM B
      Received in transfer from A. B., late officer-in-charge  Sub-Division, the stock and tools and plant which have been in his personal custody, as detailed in the last balance return and accounts of receipts and issues to date. The returns for the year ended ,	
the half-year ended 		and for the month of 	for the whole Sub Division
have been submitted to the Divisional Officer and the account of daily receipts and issues for the current	month	has	been	written	up-to-date.
C.D.
Relieving Sub-Divisional Officer.
(Station and date.),
4.50. The relieving officer should then, unless otherwise ordered, proceed with the relieved officer to inspect the records, cash, stores, works and materials at site of works, Incharge of subordinates but in the case of the transfer of a Divisional charge, the relieved officer should accompany the relieving officer in the inspection of the outstation only when so directed by the Superintending Engineer. The relieving officer should examine the accounts, count the cash, inspect the stories and count, weigh and measure certain selected articles, in order to test the accuracy of the returns, and should minutely examine the works in progress as o their quality, and as to their accordance with the sanctioned plans and estimates; he should also record his opinion as o the correctness of the accounts of materials at site.
4.51. The relieved officer should further give the relieving officer a list and memorandum showing all the works in hand and the orders remaining to be complied with and of such matters as particularly require his attention, with full explanation of any peculiarity of circumstances, or apprehended difficulties. He, should also furnish the relieving officer with a complete— statement of £11 unadjusted claims, with reasons for their not having been adjusted in due course, and a report as to any complication likely to arise owing to their non-adjustment. This should be given by all officers starting from Regional Engineer to Overseer sending the copy to the immediate officer before handing over the charge.
CHAP. IV) MISCELLANEOUS RULE -TRANSFER (4.52-5.57
OF CHARGE
4.52. The relieving officer, in reporting that the transfer has been completed, should bring to
notice anything irregular or objectionable in the conduct of business that may have come officially to his notice. In the case of the transfer of. a Divisional charges he should describe the state of the records cash stores and works, mentioning what outstations he has yet to inspect, and when he proposes to visit each.
4.53. The relieving Divisional Officer should mention specially in his transfer report whether the accounted may be considered fairly to represent the progress of the works^
4.54. In the case of transfer of a Division, the detailed report of completion of transfer should,
except in special circumstances, be submitted within a fortnight of such transfer. ‘In the case of any disagreement between the relieved and relieving officer, a reference should be made to the Superintend- lug Engineer. The fact of taking over charge should, however, be reported (in form No. Stereo A. G). 75) as	soon	as	the	transfer	is	completed.
4.55. The transfer report of a Sub-Divisional charge should, on receipt by the Divisional
Officer, be scrutinized by him; any remarks necessary )being entered in the column provided for that purpose. The report should then be forwarded to the Superintending Engineer who, after passing such orders, as may be necessary, should return it to the Divisional Officer for record in the Divisional Office.
4.56. In the case of a Divisional or Sub-Divisional charge becoming vacant by the death or
sudden departure of the officer in-charge, the succeeding officer should take action as above prescribed and assume charge, forwarding to the Superintending Engineer or Divisional Officer, as the case may be, the	receipts which would otherwise be given to the relieved officer.
III—Reconstitution Executive or Sub Divisional charges
4.57. When in consequence of the reconstitution of executive charges or of any other
arrangements, the rules laid down in paragraphs 4.44 to 4.56 will apply mutatis mutandis and the instructions laid down in Appendix VII shall be observed when the accounts of two or more Divisional or Sub- Divisional Officers are to be amalgamated or those of any office are either to be broken up info parts or closed. :
4.58) 4.59 PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT (CODE [CHAP. IV
IV—other officers
4.59) In the case of transfers of charges other than Divisions and Sub-Divisions, the Divisional Officer should issue instruction as to the works to be jointly inspected by the relieved and relieving officers
4.60) Special attention should be paid by all officers, especial ally Sub-Divisional Officers, to ensure that in cases of transfer the tools and stores Incharge of a subordinate are made over correctly to his successors and receipts taken from the relieving subordinate. This is necessary in order to fix responsibility for the loss of stores on the particular person.
4.61) Accordingly, when one subordinate makes over charge - to another of a section of a subdivision, stereo, Buildings and Roads No. 148 a joint transfer report, accompanied by the relieving officer‘s receipt for the stock and tools and plant which have been in the custody of the relieved officer, should be submit d to the Sub-Divisional Officer. The Sub-Divisional officer will scrutinize the receipt and compare it with the Sub- Divisional returns before submitting the transfer report the Divisional Officer for orders. The Sub-Divisional Officer will countersign a. copy of the receipt and forward it in due course to the relieved officer. The transfer report will be finally	recorded	in	the	Sub-Divisional	Office.
     I—HEAVY EXPENDITURE AT THE END OF THE YEAR
 4.62) Disbursing	officers	should	refrain	from	incurring
hasty and ill-considered expenditure at the end of the year wit the mere object of spending their grants. They must realize that it is contrary to the public interest to expend money in a hurry, mainly for the reason that it is at their disposal, and that it is far more in the public interest to surrender money that cannot be profitably utilized in order that it may be diverted to other works which would otherwise have to lie over for want of funds. They	should	therefore	surrender	freely	all
-money which cannot be expended advantageously and as far as possible include provisions for lapsed grants in the estimates of ordinary expenditure for the next year. Expenditure during June be so regulated that it will on no account exceed double the average monthly expenditure for the previous 11 months of the year. - The limit be increased in some special circumstances t three times the average monthly expenditure of the last eleven months-.
MISCELLANEOUS RULES -HEAVY	(4.59
EXPENDITURE AT THE END OF THE YEAR
      (2) Disbursing Officers are assured that failure to spend the total grant allotted to them will not in ordinary circum - stances count against them in any way but excessive expenditure incurred more than permitted as above in last month of the financial year will go severely against the	incurring	officer	and	must	be	avoided	at	all	costs.
      (3) Disbursing officers should familarise themselves with the procedure under which lapsed grants pass in to the budget of the following year and the method of obtaining the grants as described in paragraph 13-8 of the Punjab Budget Manual (Fourth Edition).
127
CHAPTER V
POWERS OF SANCTION OF THE WEST PAKISTAN
GOVERNMENT IN THE BUILDINGS AND
ROADS DEPARTMENT AND OF THE
AUTHORITIES SUBORDINATE
TO IT.
I—FUNDAMENTAL CONDITIONS.
51. The Government of West Pakistan exercises by virtue of the constitution of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, full powers of sanction in regard to provincial public works expenditures other than that incurred in connection with the residences of the Governor and has invested the authorities subordinate to it with powers in respect of that expenditure by means of rules and delegations which, except in regard to certain establishment matters, are detailed in this Chapter.
52. The essential conditions which must be fulfilled before the commencement of the execution of any public work are:—
(i) There must be an act of sanction of an authority competent to sanction; and
(ii) There must be an act of appropriation of funds for the purpose by an authority competent to appropriate.
See also paragraph 2-82.
53. A group of works which forms one project shall be considered as one work, and the necessity for obtaining sanction of competent authority to such a group of works is not avoided by the fact that the cost of each particular work in the group is within the powers of sanction of any authority thereto subordinate
IL—Commencement of work in anticipation of detailed estimates of the complete project.
54. (a) In exceptional cases where it is desirable to commence work on a- project which has
been administratively approved, and funded before the detailed estimate for the whole project has been prepared, it is permissible for the authority competent to give final technical sanction to the
CHAP. V]	POWER OF SANCTION GENERAL
project as a whole to accord sanction to detailed estimates for component parts of the project, subject	to	the	following	conditions:	—
      (i) For each such work or component part there must be fully prepared detailed estimate and, in the administrative approval as a whole, there must be a clear and specific amount corresponding	to	the	work	or	component	part	in	question.
      (ii) The amount of the detailed estimate must not exceed the amount included in the administrative
approval	by	more	than	5	per	cent,
      (iii) The sanctioning authority must be satisfied, before according sanction, that the amount of the technical sanction for the whole project is not likely to exceed the amount of the administrative approval and that the work or component part in question can be appropriately commenced without affecting or being affected by any other part of the project, financially or otherwise.
      Note—This rule does not apply to estimates for parts of individual buildings unless the preliminary estimates for administrative approval have been similarly prepared,
      (b) Divisional Officer shall ensure preparation of and Technical Sanction to detailed estimates as soon as the work is administratively approved and funded. For this purpose, the register of works administratively approved should be maintained and entries made therein initiated by the Division al Officer.
5.5. Ta obviate delay in commencing work on a detailed estimate for Complete project which has been prepared and submitted for technical sanction, but which requires minor amendments in the design or estimate, the sanctioning authority should adopt one or other of the following courses	:	—
      (i) Amend the design or estimate in his own office and sanction it; or
      (ii) Sanction the parts of the estimate which are approved subject to conditions (ii) and (iii) specified in paragraph 54, and call for amended detailed estimates, for the other portions of the project
5.6. In communicating the sanctions to parts of projects accorded under the provisions of paragraphs: and 5.4, and 5.5, the
5.7—5.8]	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE
sanctioning authority should also intimate to the Audit Officer the amount administratively approved for the whole project. 111-Commencement of works in anticipation of the orders on the public works budget.
51	. Pending receipt of intimation of the budget grant for the year, disbursing officers n the
Buildings and Roads Department are authorized to under take work and incur expenditure subject to the following limits:
I—All original works in progress at the end of the previous financial year may be continued.
11—All original works for which an appropriation was made under proper authority in the budget estimate of the past year, but which may not have been begun in that year, may be commenced iii the new rear; the expenditure on account of any such work, in anticipation of -orders on the budget estimate, not being allowed to exceed the amount of the previous year‘s appropriation or the amount entered in the budget estimate of the current year, whichever is less.
III—-Expenditure may be incurred on annual repairs to the extent of the previous year‘s allotment under each of the budget sub-bade, provided that dose not exceed that entered in the budget estimate of the current year. - -
IV—Expenditure may be incurred under Pay of Officers’ and ‘Pay of Establishment’ according to the scales sanctioned and provided for by the vote of the Parliament in he current year also for casual temporary establishment at the average monthly rate of the current year.
V—Expenditure on travelling allowance contingencies
and tools and plant may be incurred at the average monthly rate of the previous year. Note—As a matter of course all expenditure in incurred under those rules in anticipation of sanction to the annual budget estimates must be treated as a charge against the-grants eventually made.
B-Powers of Government in the ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT.
I-A administrative approval



5.8 Government in the Administrative Department concerned may accord administrative approval to expenditure on minor works in connection with the construction purchase
Chap. V]	POWERS OF SANCTION-GOVERNMENT	5.8]
ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT
      or conversion of buildings required as residences for officers connected with the administration of the province (excluding residences for the Governor and those required for Central Departments) in accordance with the principles set forth in paragraph 3.23 of this code and subject to the following conditions —
(a) that the standard rent as calculated under rule 523 of Admixture I to chapter III of this
Code does not exceed 104 per cent of the average emoluments of the class of Government Servant required to occupy the building;
(b) that assent of the Finance Department is not presumed to any such expenditure which is not likely to give an adequate return on capital cost by reason of either no rent being charged or the rent to be charged being less than that recoverable under the rules in Annexure I to Chapter III of this code and
(c) that the building is assigned to the holder of a specified post who is bound by the terms to live therein.
      Administrative Approval to cases of expenditure in respect of estimates classified as, Major Works will be accorded by Government in the administrative Department concerned only with the prior concurrence of the Finance Department which will require that conditions specified above are fulfilled. The scale of accommodation appropriate to the status of the prospective occupant may be prescribed by Government in accordance with any standard designs suitable for the various classes and grades of Government Officers.
(2) Applications for administrative approval for expenditure on additions and alteration to existing residential buildings should be submitted by the Head of Department concerned, giving reason why the proposals are brought forward to Government in the Irrigation Communication and Works Department which is the Administrative Department for purposes of according administrative approvals in such cases. The above rule, however, does not apply to the forest Department, in the case of which applications for administrative approval should be submitted to the Administrative Department concerned.
(5.8 PUBLIC Works DEPARTMENT CODE [Chap. V
(3) Expenditure on a residential building should, by strict economy of design, be, as far as possible confined to such a figure that the rent as calculated under the Rules in Annexure A to Chapter III of this Code shall fall within 10 per cent in the case of major works and 12/1/2 per cent in the case of major Works of average emoluments of the class of Government Servants who wilt usually occupy the building, calculated with reference to the revised scales of pay, since any outlay in excess of that limit involves loss to Government.
(4 ) In the case of an official residence except that of inferior whether newly constructed, purchased or hired puhkhas with their fittings (see paragraph 3.4) may be supplied, if asked for, in all rooms, which are ordinarily used by occupants, such as office, drawing, dining, dressing and bed rooms, studies and, Bodoirs and maintained by the Government. All other punkhas such as in the compounds, etc., and fittings, should be provided and maintained by the tenant. -
(5) (a) The Government does not undertake to maintain gardens attached to Government residential buildings (including leased buildings) other than those occupied by the Governor, but the cost of planting shade trees, and of transplanting soil in such portion of the compound as is meant for a garden, can be debited to public funds as capital expenditure on the property. Superintending Engineers and Divisional officers when preparing estimates for the construction of such buildings should see that the items enumerated below, or as many of them as are considered necessary, are provided for in them —
(i) Leveling ground,
(ii) constructing approach roads and	culverts,
(iii) Planting shade trees and hedges,
iv)	transplanting soil,
(v) sinking a well,
(vi) constructing irrigation channels,	and
(vii) erecting boundary pillars.
(b) Item (1) includes terracing where necessary, and preparing ground for sowing grass, planting shrubs, etc., but the tenant actual sowing and planting should be done by the tenant.
[CHAP. V	POWER OR SANCTION GOVERNMENT	5.9
IN THE ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT
      (c) The cost of items (1), (iii), (iv) and (vi) should not exceed Rs.100 (one hundred) per acre of land included in the compound.
(d) In the event, however, if no one being either in occupation of a residence or responsible
for the rent, or if the officer responsible for the rent has received permission to reside elsewhere and the residence is unoccupied the pay of a suitable, establishment, not exceeding one mali or one may, with the special sanction of Government in the Irrigation Communication and Works Department, be charged to the annual repair estimate of the building,
(6) The provision of fowl-houses and sheds or shelters of any kind for cows, sheep, poultry, etc., at the expense of Government is not ordinarily admissible, but these restrictions do not apply to buildings acquired in Murree for the accommodation of the West Pakistan Government officials, provided the full rent on the outlay involved is recovered from the tenant.
        Note—The provisions of sub- paragraphs (2), (4), (5). (b) (c) and (d) and (d) and 6 above do not apply to the residences of the Governor.
5..9	Government may, at its discretion, sanction the provision and maintenance of tennis
courts at the official residences of Commissioners and other high officials who have heavy obligations in the way of entertainment, as also for any other official residence for which tennis courts are considered necessary, provided that the authorized limit of the capital cost of the residence admits of the further expenditure involved, and that the rent is increased so as to cover both interests on the capital outlay incurred, and average actual maintenance charges for the past three years.
      The charges which may be admitted in connection with the provision and maintenance of tennis courts are
A—In regard to courts in the plains: —
      (1) Construction of the Court and of retaining walls
      where necessary;
      (2) Surfacing of the court with bajri grass, cement;
etc., at the time of construction. .
B—In regard of courts in the hills -
      (1) and (2) as in section A above; .
[510—511]	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE [Chap. V
(3) provision and erection of. posts and wire-netting for the purpose of enclosing the court and of permanently fixed posts for suspending lawn tennis nets;
       (4) provision and erection of fixtures and appurtenance for hanging screens; and -
       (5) maintenance of items (3) and (4) only.
       The cost of providing and renewing tennis nets, the marking of courts the provisions of screens, the maintenance of the surface of the courts and also the maintenance of items (3) and (4) in section B above, in so far as they relate to the court in the plains, should, on no account, be admitted as a charge against the Government. (See 324 of the Code).
Note—For the purpose of these rules, the maintenance charges shall be revised after every three years.
(b) Other Public Works—
510. Government in the Irrigation Communication and Works Department and other Administrative Departments may approve administratively expenditure on public works for their own departments other than residential buildings up to the limits and authorities detailed in annexure B to Chapter II
II—Technical
  (a) General-
511. In the case of works financed partly by Government and partly by contributions, the application of the limits given in paragraphs 512 to 522 shall be determined by the following considerations: —
I—If the work is undertaken by and on the responsibility of Government, i.e., if Government is to be the eventual owner of the work, the limits apply only to that share of the cost which, is met by Government.
II-If the work is undertaken on the responsibility of a local body, i.e. if the local body is to be the eventual owner of the work, the financial assistance given by Government is treated as a grant-in-aid. If the local body entrusts the execution of the work to the Buildings and Roads Department in accordance with the rules for deposit works, that depart -
[CHAP. V POWER OP SANCTION GOVERNMENTS 5.12.5.17
IN THE ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT
Department or any, other subordinate authority to whom such powers may be delegated, will be responsible for the technical sanction to the estimate and the provisions of paragraphs 2.103 and 2.105 will apply. . .,
(b) Original works-
5.12. Government in the Irrigation Communication and Works Department has full powers to accord technical sanction of detailed plans and estimates for projects and other original works, (other than Central), provided the requisite administrative approval as required by para. 5.8 to 5.10 and para. (7) of paragraph 3.26 has been previously accorded by competent authority (vide Annexure B to Chapter II of this Code) and the amount of estimate does not exceed the figure of administrative	approval	beyond	the	permissible	limits.
5.13. Buildings and Roads Department Officers in the West Pakistan have the same powers to accord technical sanction in respect of central civil works (including post and Telegraph works) as may be delegated to —them for Provincial works.
5.14. The powers of Government in the Irrigation Communication and Works Department to sanction estimates for military works are governed by the orders issued by the Central Government.
5.15. , The powers of Government in the Irrigation Communication and Works Department as
regards technical sanction to Famine Relief works are the same as for other Provincial Civil Works.
(d) RENEWALS AND REPLACEMENTS .
5.16. 1n the case of renewals and replacements of civil works, the powers of Government in the Irrigation Communication and Works Department are the same as for original works under paragraph 512.
(e) Maintenance and repairs—
5.17. Government in the Irrigation Communication and Works Department is competent to deal finally with all	estimates for	bonafied maintenance and repairs including
special repairs .
f)	Supplementary y and revised estimates—
1.1. Government in the Irrigation Communication and Works Department is empowered to sanction supplementary and revised estimate, provided the amount of the revised estimate and, in the case of supplementary estimates, the amount of the supplementary estimate when added to that. of the original estimate, does not exceed the amount of administrative approval for the project, beyond the permissible limit of 5
percent,—vide paragraph 2.7 and 5.21
5.19. No excess over a revised estimate sanctioned by Government in the Irrigation Communication and Works Department can be sanctioned without the concurrence of the Finance department
5.20. In cases where a substantial section of a project originally sanctioned by Government has been abandoned the aggregate assumed cost of the works included in that section should be excluded from the total sanctioned estimate before determining the amount of additional charge of She excess over the estimate. (See paragraph 2.83).
5.21. Government in the Irrigation Communication and Works Department is empowered to sanction an estimate technically, if the technical sanction exceeds the amount of the financial sanction by a sum not exceeding per cent (See also paragraph
5.22. Government in the Irrigation Communication and Works Department, is competent to sanction expenditure in any one year on the maintenance, Improvement, etc., of the residences of the Governor up to the limits and subject to the conditions laid down in paragraph	326.	of	this	Code.
111-—Stores
5.23. Government in the Irrigation, Communication and Works Department has full powers to purchase stores in accordance with the stores purchase rules issued by the Wes Pakistan Government -vide appendix V
5.24. The powers of Government in the Irrigation, Communication and Works Department in regard to the purchase of livestock and to the purchase, manufacture and repair of articles included under minor head —Tools and Plant” except the purchase of motor vehicles are restricted to Rs. 40.000 in any one case
[Chap.	POWERS SANCTION GOVERNMENT	[323.319
IN THE‘ ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT
5.25. Government in the Irrigation, Communication and Works Department is authorized to write off finally the irrecoverable value of stores lost by fraud or the negligence of individuals or both causes up to a limit of Rs. 5,000 in each case, and to write off losses of stock due to depreciation as opposed to actual losses up to Rs. 25,000 as per item C—write. Offs under VI refunds remission and suspension of revenue and write off in Appendix A to delegation of Powers in Annexure B of Chapter II of. this Code.
I V—Remission of Departmental charges
5.26. Government in the Irrigation, Communication and Works Department is competent to waive recovery of departmental charges for Establishment and Tolls and Plant on non- Government works executed in the Buildings and Roads Department, provided the actual works outlay is less than Its. 1,000.
Note—The Government of Pakistan having regard to the established convention In regard to petty claims as between different Government, have decided that in the case on non Government works estimated to cost less than Rs.1,000 which have been exempted from the levy of department charges by competent authority the charge of I per cent on account of audit and accounts establishment need also not be levied .
V—Miscellaneous powers
5.27. The miscellaneous powers exercised by Government in the Irrigation,
Communication and Works Department are detailed in annexure A and B of Chapter II of this Code.
5.28. Powers of the Chief Engineer, Regional Engineer Officer, Superintending
Engineers Divisional and Sub- Divisional Officers in the matter of according financial and other sanctions are given in Annexure A and B to Chapter II of this Code.
            In addition to the above, the Chief Engineer, Regional Engineer, Superintending Engineers, and the Divisional Officers exercise the following powers also:.—
Chief	Engineer,	and	Regional	Engineer—To	authorize
the undertaking of deposit works without limit, subject o rules in paragraphs 2.103 to 2.106
5.29. Superintending Engineers—(1) to sanction necessary alterations in the
constructive details of works during
PUBLIC WORK DEPARTMENT CODE [CHAP -V
their executions, provided that such alterations do not cause an increase of charge beyond the limit of their powers to deal finally with excesses over estimate,—.as laid down in powers delegated for technical sanction in Annexure A and B to Chapter II of this Code
5.30. To‘ sanction deposit works up to Rs. 50,000, provided the rules in paragraphs 2.103 to 2.106 are strictly observed:—
5.31. To sanction emergent repairs or other works to any reasonable and necessary amount! in case of imminent danger to the structure.
5.32. To pass indents on other Departments for articles required for sanctioned works^ and to forward indents for Foreign stores direct to the Director of Industries.
5.33. To permit alteration in declared date of birth due to clerical errors, as laid down in annexure A and B to this Chapter.
Divisional Officers—(1)	To sanction trifling alterations in the constructive details of work
during their execution in case of necessity, reporting as a general rule, his action to the Superintending Engineer.
(2) To undertake deposit works up to the following limits; subject to the rules laid down in paragraphs, 3.103 to 2.106:—
      Selected Officers
       Non-selected Officers
 (3) To purchase or manufacture stock sufficient to keep the stock of the Division up the reserve limit or which may be required for use on any sanctioned work (Paragraph 4.27).
(4) To submit to audit, bills of contingent charges of their Divisions, excluding special contingencies up to a limit of Rs. 600 per month, bills exceeding Rs. 600 to be submitted ft the Superintending Engineer, for sanction which will be signified by that Officer countersigning the bill.
(Referred to in rule 5.29 (5) of buildings and roads department code)
Auditor general‘s Direction. For the preparation and submission of the
Annual establishment return
1. The detailed statement of permanent non-gazetted establishment commonly known as the Annual Establishment return, will be prepared in Form A. It will show accurately the establishment as it exists the 1st April. .
2. The particulars in respect of all members of the establishment holding permanent posts, whether on duty or absent on foreign service leave or deputation or in temporary posts elsewhere or under suspension or in transit to another office, should be entered in the appropriate columns, with the exception of the following classes of Government servants:—
(a) Government servants for whom records of service are maintained in the Audit Office;
(b) Government servants for whom service books are not required to ho maintained,
3. The return should show accurately the sanctioned scale f permanent establishment and so will include every post, whether filled or not]! a post be vacant, the word —vacant” should be set against It in the column —Name of incumbent”. Posts sanctioned but not filled	should be	detailed at the	foot	of the return.
4. There should be a separate return for each permanent establishment and not more
than one establishment should be exhibited on a single page.
5. The names should be entered in order of sections of the establishment. There
should be a separate total for each section and a grand total for the whole establishment.
6. (a) In column 1 to general orders should be entered once only, any other order
should be entered against every entry which it supports.
      (b) The date to be entered in column 2 is the date from which the Government servant has held the post continuously in an officiating, provisionally, substantive or substantive capacity, as the case may be.
      (c) Personal pay should be shown on a separate line immediately below the entry of pay in column 8, the orders of the competent authority sanctioning U being quoted In column	1.
      If the pay entered in column S Includes an increment allowed with effect form the let April, the entry should be checked with the increment certificate which would accompany the April, bill.
7. When the pay of an establishment, or of an individual Government servant, is met partly by Government and partly by local or other funds, the whole pay should be shown in the return and the portion payable from each source specified in a foot-note.
ANNEXURES]	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE [CHAP. V
8. The name of a Government servant officiating In a post and the amount of additional pay for officiating drawn by him need not be shown unless the additional pay for officiating counts for pension. -
      In the case of an establishment on a time-scale of pay the names of a Government Servants not belonging permanently to the cadre but officiating in permanent posts or holding temporary poets should be included with an indication of the nature of the vacancies they fill.
      If the officiating incumbent holds a permanent post on another establishment, the fact should be stated and the entry should be supported by a certificate from the head of that other establishment.
9. it a Government servant on the establishment has attained the age of compulsory
retirement, the number and date of the orders of the competent authority permitting his retention in service should be quoted in a note at the foot of the return, The period for which retention has been authorized or for which leave beyond the age of compulsory retirement has been granted should also be mentioned. If no orders for his retention have been received the number and date of the application for sanction to his retention should be noted.
10. A statement in Form B should be appended to the return, showing with relevant particulars, the names which did not appear In the return of the previous year and those which appeared in the return of the previous year but are now omitted, as well as the names of Government servants who were on leave or under suspension during the previous year.
      If a Government servant was transferred more than once in the preceding year, the name of each office and post in which he was employed during the year should be mentioned with dates in column 2 od the statement. II. As the return will be the Chief authority by which pension claims will be tested later, both the statements (Form A and B) should after completion be checked carefully with the service books and a certificate of this check should be endorsed on each.
12. In the case of establishments borne on a provincial or amalgamated cadre separate returns should be furnished to the Controlling Officer, who should consolidate them into one return. The certificate of comparison with service books on the consolidated return should be as follows:. —
13. The return should be transmitted to the Accountant-General as early as possible after 1st April and In any case, not later then 15th May,
Note—in the case of establishments on time-scales of pay the accountant General may require	the	submission	of	She	return	in	duplicate.
14. These directions apply in respect of local funds establishments the claims to pension for which are submitted to the accountant General for verification of service ad report .
240
Chap.V
Form A
DETAILED STATEMENT OF THE PERMANENT ESTABLISHMENT OF THE .. ..AS IT
STOOD ON 1ST APRIL 19
     1     23     4     5     6     7     8     9    10Order of competent authority creating the postDate of appointment of present incumbent to post with indication of nature of appointment (e.g officiating provisional or permanent)Name of section and postDate of incumbent’s birth by christen are (as near as possible)Serial num bears of posts in each className of incumbentPay of postPay of present incumbent and total of each sectionDate of last incrementRemarks (including note of efficiency bar where applicable)
      Compared with service books and fond correct
Signature of the Head of office
      ANNEXURE .A PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT CODE Chap.V
Form A
STATEMENT OF NEW LEAVE ETC
     1     2     3     4     5     6New namesForm what office and on what date transferred or (in the case of new entrants ) with what bill the health and age certificates were furnishedName which were in form a of the previous year but are now omittedFrom what date cases to be borne on the establishment and whyNames of Government servants who were on leave or under suspension during the previous yearDescription and period of leave or suspension (form and to what date whether it has been expertly declared that) the suspension period will count towers pension
Compared with service books and found correct
Signature of the Head of office
(REFERRED TO IN BLUE 5.29 (5) OF BUILDINGS AND ROADS
DEPARTMENT CODE)
1. In regard to the date of birth a declaration of age made at the time of, or for the purpose of, entry
into Government service shall, as against the Government servant in question, be deemed to be conclusive unless he applies for correction of his age as recorded within two years from the date of his entry into Government service. Government, however, reserves the right to make a correction in the recorded age of a Government servant at any time against the interests of that Government servant when It is satisfied that the age recorded In his service book or in the History of Services of a gazetted Government servant Is Incorrect and has been incorrectly recorded with the object that the -Government servant may derive some	unfair	advantage	there	from.
2. The orders in this annexure have effect from 4th July 1928. With regard to persons In
Government service on that date one year from that date was allowed within which they could apply for correction	of	their	recorded	date	of	birth.
3. When a Government servant, within the period allowed, makes an application for the correction
of his date of birth as recorded, a special enquiry should be held to ascertain his correct age and reference should be made to all available sources of information, such as certified copies of entries In the municipal birth register, university or school age certificates janam parties or horoscopes. It should, however, be remembered that it is entirely discretionary on the part of the sanctioning authority to refuse or grant such applications and no alteration should be allowed unless it has satisfactorily been proved that the date of birth as originally given by the applicant was a bonafide mistake and that he has derived no unfair advantage there from
4. The result of every such enquiry should, in the case of non-gazetted servants, be briefly stated in
their	service	books	and	If	a	correction	is	sanctioned
the	fact	should	be	reported	to	the	Accountant.	General,

(REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 2, 69)
Classes of deeds, contracts and other instruments and the officers authorized to execute them for and on behalf of the Governor of the West Pakistan
1.Instruments relating to the purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage of materials, machinery and stores.By Chief Engineers, Regional Engineer Officers, Superintend. ing	Engineers,	Executive
Engineers of the Buildings and Roads Department and (if the value does not, exceed Rs. 5,000) by	Assistant	Engineers;
Executive Engineers, and Sub- Divisional	Officers	of the
Buildings	and	Roads
Department.2.Instruments relating to the execution of works of all kinds connected with buildings bridges, roads, tanks, reservoirs, embankments and protection works; instruments relating to the constriction of waterworks, boreholes sewage and drainage works and the erecting and installation of machinery.3Bonds of auctioneers and security bonds for the duo performance and completion of works.4Security bonds for the due performance of their duties by Government servants whom the officers specified have the power	to	appoint.By Chief Engineers, Regional Engineers	Officers,
Superintending	Engineers,
Executive
Engineers of the Buildings and Roads Department5Leases for grazing cattle on roadsides for the cultivation of land under sewage fatms; and instruments relating to the sale of grass, trees or other produce on roadside to in plantations, sewage farms and vacant plots6Leases of houses land or other immovable property, provided that the rent reserved does not exceed Rs. 5,000 a month. This includes leases of private buildings leased for Government purposes.By Chief Engineer, Regional Engineer	Officers,
Superintending Engineers and. Divisional - Officers7Instruments connected with-the re conveyance of property given as security. -

8.Agreements relating to the loan of By Executive Engineer$.	tools	and	plant	to	contractors	and
othersBy Executive engineers
By the authorities competent to grant the advance9Contracts and other instruments relating to the house ‘building advances.10Agreements relating to the sale of water from Government by supply schemes.By engineers regional Engineer officers superintending Engineer Executive Engineers11instruments connected - with the. collection of tools at bridges or ferries or other means of communication provided by Government.12Appointment letters of agreement with establishment other than gazetted officers.By officer competent to appoint the establishment concerned13Deeds contracts and instruments not mentioned above.By the Secretary to Government Irrigation , Communications works Department
       Note—The entries in the above list do not confer on the officers mentioned power to conclude any class of contract or agreement but merely power to sign the document in which the contract or agreements is embodied and so make it binding on Government, after sanction has been given to a. proposal by the competent authorities. it is essential that before signing any document the executing officer as laid down In the list should make certain that power has been delegated to him to sanction the proposed agree. went or contractor or , If power has not been so delegated to him, that auction has been given by the proper authority.
Appendix-II cotd
No of itemsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil   12345PUBLIC WORKS ACCOUNTS FORMSPermanentlyPermanently   1Cash book24   2imprest cash accountPermanently3   3Receipt for payments to Government3   4Treasury remittance3..   5Cash balance report33   6P.W cheque ( counter foils).5   7Indents for invoice for stores105   8Register of stocks receipted or stock receipts55Provided the stock returns have been prepared duly audited by the Audit office and all audit objections concerning them be removed   9Abstract of stock receipts5..  10Abstract of stock issues5..  11Half yearly balance return of stock55  12Half yearly register of stock5  13Account of receipts of tools and plant55Provided the yearly tools and plant returns have been prepared duly audited by the audit office and all audit objections concerning them removed.  14Account of issues of tools and plant55  15register of tools and plant5..

No of itemsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil12345PUBLIC WORKS ACCOUNTS FORMSPermanentlyPermanentlyThe period to count from the last day of the year of the	closing	of	the
estimate	for	the
construction of repairs of the road concerned         16Statement of receipts issues and Balance of Road metal55         17Road Metal Rate Book10         18Survey report of Stores     19Sale Account         20Muster roll10         21Casual labour roll10       22Measurement book15The period of 15 years fixed for the preservation	of
measurement books counts form the date of	last	entry
.Provided all entries in the measurement book	have	been
duely crossed after payment by cash or by cheque or by adjustmentStandard Measurement bookThese	books	are
preservation as long as they	contain
measurements	of any
work in existence         23First and final bill105Or when relating to large projects	5 years after
closing of the estimate whichever is later



No of itemsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil1234524Running Account Bill APermanently
10Permanently
1025Running Account bill B10        526Running account Bill C10        527Running Account Bill (lump sum (contrast )10        528Final Bill (Lump sum Contracts)101029Head Receipts10        5Or when relating to large projects 5 years after closing of the estimate whichever is later3031Indenture for secured advances10Stereo Building and Road no.5 or when relating to large projects 5 years after closing of the estimate which ever is later32Petty works requisition and Accounts10

Appendix-II	Chap.V
Appendix-II contd
No of itemsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil1234533Works abstract a for major worksPermanently
10     PermanentlyOr when relating to large project	5 years after
closing of the estimate which ever is later34Works Abstract B for minor works10Ditto35Detailed statement of martial’s compared with estimated requirements10Ditto36Outturn statement or manufacture10Ditto37Report of vale and verification un used materials10Ditto38Register of clearance of suspense account Materials1039Works Slip (Copy)3After closing of	the
account	of	works
concerned40Register of works A for major works10After closing of estimate expedite relating to any part of which is recorded there in
Note - in the case of Buildings	and	roads
Department record	of
detail	of	expenditure
incurred	vide	Chief
Engineer Buildings and Roads	Department
should be kept before destruction.

Appendix-II
Appendix-II contd
No of itemsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil1234541Register of Works B-for Minor WorksPermanently
10     PermanentlyStereo Building and Road no.5 or when relating to large projects 5 years after closing of the estimate which ever is later
Or when relating to large project 5 years after closing of the estimate which ever is later
After closing of estimate expenditure relating to any part of which is recorded here in
Note in the case of Buildings and Roads Department recorded of detail of expenditure incurred Chief engineer Buildings and Roads Department should be kept before destruction42Register of manufacture10..Ditto43Contractors ledger10..44Detailed completion report..545Completion statement of works and repairs..546Registers Revenue realized refund of revenue and receipts and recoveries on capital account5..48Statement of rents referable in each or by deduction from pay bills..49Register of rents of buildings and lands1050Consolidated treasury receipts....Divisional record is reentrance book

Appendix-II
Appendix-II contd
No of itemsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil1234551Schedule of monthly settlement with treasuriesPermanentlyPermanently 552Register of cheque receipt of cheque receipt book5After date of recorded of last completed in the register53Transfer entry order554Transfer entry book555Advice of transfer debit5556Acceptance of reinter debit57Register of sanctions fixed charge5..58Register of transfers awaited5..59Register of miscellaneous sanctions5..From date of completion60Register of Divisional accountant’s Audit objections5..Ditto61Schedule docket5..Divisional record is in works abstracts62Schedule docket for parentage recoveries563Schedule of works expenditure (office copy .565Schedule of deposit works5

Chap.V	Appendix-II
Appendix-II contd
No of itemsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil12345     67Suspense /Deposit RegisterPermanently 5    PermanentlyProvided none of the balances are outstanding on date of destruction     68Schedule of purchasesDivisional recorded is in suspense register     69Schedule of purchases (Alternative forms)Ditto     70Schedule of miscellaneous public works advancesDitto     71Schedule of London storesDitto     72Schedule of debits to stock        5Provided the stock return have been prepared duely auited by the Audit office and all audit objections concerning them be remove     73Stock account        5     74Classified abstract of expenditure        5     75Schedule of rents of building and landsDivisional record in the register (from 49)     76Schedule of debts or edits to miscellaneous lheads of Accounts        5     77Schedule of debits credits to remittances        5     78Schedule of depositsDivisional record     79Schedule of deposits (Alternative formDitto     80Monthly Accounts10

Appendix-II	Chap.V
Appendix-II contd
No of itemsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil12345    81Abstract BookPermanently     PermanentlyThe use of this form is optional    82Extract from contractor’s LedgerDivisional record is in Ledger is in    83List of accounts submitted to audit         5    84Divisional officers report of scrutiny of accounts         5    85Register of interest bearding securities10Counting from the date of completion in all respects    86Account of interest bearing securitiesThe Divisional record is in the registers    87Indent for service postage stamps3    91Annual certificates of balances         5    92Register of Measurements books part I for ordinary book
II” standard measutment booksPermanently    93List of monthly sub Division Accounts5    94Detailed list of A for major works abstracts B-For minor works petty works requisition and accounts    95Register of miscellaneous recoveries
Appendix-II	Chap.V
Appendix-II contd
No of itemsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil1234596Memorandum of review of registersPermanentlyPermanentlyThese memos will be posted to the respective registers97Register of destruction of recordsPermanently98Confidential report on the work and conduct of Divisional AccountantsPermanentlyPermanently
       Note -the audit office had been consulted with regard to the periods fixed for the reservation of accounts forms

Appendix-II	Chap.V
Appendix-II contd
No of itemsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATION       RemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil12345Accounts forms prescribed by the west Pakistan government and other accounts records1Pay billsPermanently     Permanently 35 years in the case of Government servants for whom no establishment returns are submitted and service books or rolls are maintained and 6 year in other casesStereo A.G. No 74 (b)1.ASubsidiary cash book (paytraveling Allowance etc)20 years2Statement of income Tax23Bill for travelling Allowances2Stereo	A.G
No.90(for	Nos-
gazetted officers)4Contingent Bills5Stereo A.G No 80 for Gazette officers)5Application for re appropriation2Stereo A.G No 97 (b)6Civil Officer’s bill for public works1057Civil officer’s bill for application for funds28Reports of expenditure on contribution works29Register of sanction3B.M form No 2610Supplement to sub Divisional stock register511Divisional stock sub leger512Statement of payment made in England3

Appendix-II	Chap.V
Appendix-II contd
No of itemsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil12345    14Treasury pass bookPermanentlyPermanently    15Expenditure against budget grants5B.M forms No. 31 and 40    16Schedule of General Provident Fund5    17Register of sanctions to estimates5..    18Capital and Revenue account of buildings5    19Abstract of establishment charges5    20Correspondence re relating to accounts documentsTo be destroyed when documents are destroyed provided they contain no standing order etc    21Budget file Circle offices5    22Budget files Divisional offices5    23Rate listOrders to be passed by S.E. in each case    24Counterfoils of work orders7 years from date of reurn to office completed or date of last claim if subsequentStereo B.R. No 34    25Schedule of rates20 years    26Working statistics and administration reportsIn Divisional offices after 10 years in circle offices copies should be retuned permanently

Appendix-II	Chap.V
Appendix-II contd
No of itemsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil12345    27Correspondence relating to disputed case of contractorsPermanently
7Permanently    28Register of service postage stamps3B. and R stereo No.    29Account book of stationery1    30Printed Budget estimates of Civil1    31Account book for receipt and consumption of fuel wood coal etc for office fires2    32Sanctioned estimate and connected correspondence of re pairs and carriage of tools and plant5    33Sanctioned estimate and connected correspondence for new supply of tools and plant5B and R stereo No.33    34Account book of dusters files    35Transfer report of Accountants3    36Invoice of English stores3    37Sanctioned estimate and connected correspondence for - (i) annual repairs to buildings and roads.may be retuned longer at the discretion of the Head office
Appendix-II
Appendix-II contd
No of itemsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil12345ii) speed repairs to buildings and roads with plans if any:Permanently
10Permanentlyiii) Minor works in connection with buildings and roads with plans if anyIn cases involving acquisition of land to be preserved for ever and in other to be destroyed after 40 years(w) Major works in connection with buildings and roads with plansFor ever38Famine Accounts initial accounts539Famine Naib tehsil dar’s cash book540Contract agreements10B and R stereo No.28 29 and 30 etc41Works books20242Last pay certificate243Correspondence regarding objectionable items statement344Credit notes5From the date of last counter foil in the book45Buildings and Roads Department res house visitors book (Stereo B. and R. From No 88)3The period of three years is to the date of completion of the book46Daily Reports547Register of unpaid wages5

Appendix-II
Appendix-II contd
No of itemsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil12345May be retained longer at the discretion of the head of office GENERAL FORMS PRESCRIBED BY THE WEST PAKISTAN GOVERNMENT AND OTHER RECORDS OF A GENERAL NATURE1Civil ListPermanently
1    Permanently2Station Dak book1U.F.No.203Daily Weather reports14Journal of the occupation and duets of officers25Annual indents for estimates of English stores26Divisional officer’s indent for printed forms of accounts2A.G .O.F.149 routine7Application for sanction to purchase European stores in Pakistan3Stereo B. and R No.48Memo of work done and materials supplied59Stock book of manual and general forms310Buildings and roads Department codeOn new edition being issued one copy each of the old editions to be kept for reference in circle and divisional laboratories and the remaining copies destroyed11Circular files of superintending Engineer20

Appendix-II
Appendix-II contd
No of itemsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil1234512Circular files of the West Pakistan and the Central Government , Chief Engineer, Buildings and Roads Department ,Audit and Accounts (Works) West Pakistan and other Provincial Government.      Permanently To be retained permanently    Permanently13All records relating to claims or service such as per sonal Files qualification reports personal registers Recommendation Rolls Character Sheets etc of gazette and non gazette permanent and temporary establishment
(a) Who have retired permanently or on completion of thirty years service or on reaching the age of superannuation
(b) Who have left service for any other reason voluntarily or compulsory
    (c) Who have died10
15
514Handbook of circulars and General orders and Civil Service Regulations and Financial Hand bookOn new edition being issues one copy each of the old editions to be kept for reference in Circle and Divisional Libraries and the remaining copies destroyed
Appendix-II
Appendix-II contd
No of itemsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil1234515 Public works account code form bookPermanently
Ditto    Permanently16Buildings and roads Department classified listCopies for personal use to be destroyed when new editions issues17Army lists118Receipts and dispatch registers (Both official and unofficial)40Stereo B. and R
No.22 and 1919West Pakistan Government GazetteIn Divisions at the Headquarters of the Circle office 3 years and in other 20 years20List of surplus stores1021Indent of special form222Indent for standard forms223Correspondence and indents English stationery2Stereo B.and R. no 6924Leave and field book4025Correspondence regarding indents for rubber stamps226Monthly lists for unanswered references7Stereo B.and R. no

Appendix-II
Appendix-II contd
No of itemsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil   1234527 Correspondence	regarding	hot
weather leavePermanently
2Permanently28Correspondence	regarding	hot
weather Establishment229Correspondence regarding promotion recommendation roll of permanent and temporary establishment etc letters	for	working	and
acknowledging receipts of P.R roll books etc230Report of inspection of the sub Divisional officer by the Divisional officer and correspondence relating thereto5Stereo B. and R No. 1130ATransfer papers of Divisional and Sub Divisional officers631Report	of	inspection	of	the
Divisional	office	b	the
superintending Engineer and Director audit and accounts (Works ) West Pakistan and correspondence thereto5Stereo B. and R No. 6132Quarterly postal guide133Quarterly telegraph guide134Counterfoils of telegraph messages1
Chap.V	Appendix-II
Appendix-II contd
No of itemsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil   1234535Classified list of state Railway establishment of all Railways Railway departments (Railway Board)Permanently
1Permanently36Attendance Register137Government of Pakistan gazette18Counterfoils of passes of permission to occupy Buildings and Roads Department rest house2Stereo B. and R. No.8739Annual statement of inferior pensionable servants in service on 1st April40Station correspondence book between the Divisional officers and sub divisional officers41Nil forms242Composition passes243*Small size notes books344Director General of stores rate lists classes A to G345Annual Report of the working of district boards3
       *Note books curtaining unimportant data and not be recorded for more than a year and may be destroyed at the and of this period after they have been carefully examined by the Divisional officers .
       *May be retained longer at the discretion of the Head officer

Appendix-II
Appendix-II contd
No of itemsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil   1234546Divisional progress reportsPermanently 3PermanentlyStereo B. and R nos.51 and 5247Annual reports of the working of public Health administration in the West Pakistan3Ditto48Registers of tenders received3Stereo B. and R no 349Transfer etc orders350Divisional officer’s acknowledgement of responsibility551Read inspector’s note book352Annual Administration report of the railways in Pakistan553Annual report on the working of municipalities554List of officers occupying public buildings (copy)555Correspondence regarding minor working annual and petty repairs5 latest edition only to be retuned56GazettersPermanently57Printed list of periodical returns due to and from divisional circle officers5 latest edition only to be retained58Punjab Famine CodeDitto59Army regulationsDitto60Official report of the legislative assembly debates and indices thereto10

Appendix-II
Appendix-II contd
No of itemsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil   1234561sounding register of BridgesPermanently
Not to be destroyedPermanently62Register of progress and instruction5Provided the sub Divisional officer certifies that no claim has been put in during the price ding the 3 years buildings and roads only)63Register of landPermanent64Register of incumbentsPermanent65Pass book saving bookTo be retained so long as the security pledged to Executive Engineer is not refunded to the person concerned66Register of requisitions10 years67Register of service bookPermanent68Register of properly other than government buildings owned by govt: which can be leased or letPermanent69Register of voucher slips5 years70Register of quinquial revision of rents of residential buildings20 years71Note books20 years72Check measurement statement5 years


CHAP.V	APPENDIX -II
Appendix-II Cotd
No of itemsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil1234596Memorandum of review of registersPermanentlyPermanentlyThese memos will be posted to the respective registers97Register of destruction of recordsPermanentlyPermanently98Confidential report on the work and conduct of decisional AccountantsPermanentlyPermanently
- the audit office has been consulted with regard to the periods fixed for the reservation of accounts forms

No of itemsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil12345    ACCOUNTS FORMS PRESCRIBED BY THE WEST
OTHER ACCOUNTS RECPAKISTAN GOVI :ORDSKRNMENT ANDPermanently35 years in the case	of
Government servants	for
whom	no
establishment returns	are
submitted	aid
service book or service rolls are maintained and 6 years in other casesStereo A.G No. 74 9(b)1Pay bills1.ASubsidiary cash book (pay traveling Allowance etc)2 years..    2Statement of income tax2    3Bill for travelling Allowances3Stereo A.G no 90 for non gazette officers    4Contingent bills5Stereo A.G no 80 for non gazette officers )    5Application for reapplication2Stereo stereo a.G No.97(b)    6Civil officer’s bill for public works105    7Civial officer’s application for funds       2    8Reports of expenditure on contribution works2    9Register of sanction and appropriation and appropriations       3..B.M Form No. 26    10Supplement to Sub- Divisional stock register       5..    11Divisional stock sub ledger5..    12Statement of payment made in England3..

No of itemsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil1234514Treasury pass bookPermanently 3PermanentlyB.M. Forms No 31 and 4015Expenditure against budget grants16Schedule of general provident Fund..517Register of sanctions to estimates518Capital and Revenue account of buildings519Abstract of establishment charges520Correspondence relating to accounts documentsTo be destroyed when document are destroyed provided they contain no standing orders etc21Budget files522Budget files Divisional offices523Rate listsOrder to be passed by S.E. in each case24Counterfoils of work orders7 years from date of rerun to office completed or date of last claim if subsequent.Steree B.R.No 3425Schedule of rates20 years26Working statistics and administration reportsIn divisional officers after 10 years in circle offices copies should be retuned be retained permanently
No of itemsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil1234527Correspondence relating to disputed cases of contractorsPermanently 3Permanently28Register of service postage stamps3B.and R. stereo29Accounts books of stationery130Printed budget establishment of Civil works and repairs (provincial ).1..31Account book for receipt and consumption of fuel wood coal etc for office fires32Sanctioned estimate and connected correspondence for repairs and carriage of tools and plant533Sanctioned estimate and connected correspondence for re pairs and carriage of tools and plant5B.& R Stereo
No.3334Account book of dusters file baskets water paper baskets dak bags etc35Transfer report of Accountants336Invoice of English stores337Sanctioned estimate and connected correspondence for
    i)	Annual report
to buildings and roads10May be retained longer at the discretion of the head office


No of itemsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil12345     ii)	Special repairs to
buildings	and
roads with plans if any.
     iii)	Minor works in
connection	with
buildings	and
roads with plans if anyPermanently
10Permanently(W) major works in connection with building and roads with plansFor ever38Famine Accounts initial Accounts539Famine Naib Rehsil dar’s class book5540Contract Agreements1041Works books20242Last pay certificate243Correspondence regarding objectionable items statement3..44Credit notes5From the date of last counter foil in the book45Buildings and roads Department rest house visitor’s book (stereo b) and3The period of there years is to be counted from the date of completion of the book46Daily Report547Register of unpaid Wages5
No of itemsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil12345MAY BE RETAINED LONGER AT THE DISCRETION OF THE HEAD OF THE OFFICE
GENERAL FORMS PRESCRIBED A GENERAL WEST PAKISTAN GOVERNMENT AND OTHER RECORDS OF A GENERAL NATURE(W) major works in connection with building and roads with plansFor ever1Civil list1Permanently2Station dak book1U.F.No.203Daily weather reports14Journal of the occupation and duties of officers25Annual indents26Divisional officer’s indent for printed forms of accounts2A.G.O .F 149
Routine7Application for sanction to purchase European stores in Pakistan3Stereo B. And R
No.48Memo of work done and materials applied59Stock book of manual and general forms310Buildings and roads Department codeOn new edition being issued one copy each of the old editions to be kept for reference in Circle and Divisional laborites11Circular files of Superintending Engineers20

No of formsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil1234512Circular files of the West Pakistan and the central government Chief Engineer buildings and Roads Department Director Audit and accounts *Works) west Pakistan and other provincial Government        Permanently To be retained permanentlyPermanently13All record relating to claims of service such as per sonal files service books qualification reports personal registers recommendation rolls character sheets etc of gazette permanent and temporary establishment a) Who have retired permanently or on completion of thirty years service or on reaching the age of superannuation
b) Who have left service f or any other reason voluntarily compulsory
     c) Who have died10
15
1514Handbook of circulars and general orders and Civil Services Regulations and Finance Hand bookOne new edition being issued one copy each of the old editions to be kept for reference in circle and Divisional libraries and the remaining copies destroyed

No of formsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil1234515Public works accounts code forms booksPermanently DittoPermanently16Buildings and roads Department classified listCopies for personal use to be destroyed when new editions issued17Army lists118Receipts and dispatch registers (Both official and unofficial)40Stereo B.and R
No. 22 and 1919West Pakistan government gazetteIn divisions at the head quarters of the circle office 3 years and in other 20 years20List of surplus stores1021Indent for special form222Indent for standard forms2Stereo B. and R No 6923Correspondence and indents English stationery224Level and filed books4025Correspondence regarding indents for rubber stamps226Monthly lists of unanswered reference7Stereo B. and R No. I

APPENDIX-II COTD
No of formsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil1234527Correspondence re grading hot weather leavePermanently 2Permanently28Correspondence re grading hot weather establishment229Correspondence regarding promotion recommendation roll of permanent and temporary establishment etc .Letters forwarding and acknowledging receipts of P.R roll books etc230Report of inspection of the Sub
-Divisional of officer and correspondence relating there to5Stereo B. and R.
No. 11.30-ATransfer papers of Divisional and Sub Divisional officers631Report of inspection of the Divisional office by the superintending Engineer and the Director Audit and Accounts (Works) west Pakistan and correspondence there to5Stereo B. and R.
No. 6132Quarterly postal guide133Quarterly telegraph guide134Counterfoils of telegraph messages1
APPENDIX -II
APPENDIX-II CONTD
No of formsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil1234535Classified list o f state Railway Establishment and destruction return of establishment of all Railways Railway Department s (Railway Board).Permanently
1Permanently36Attendance Register137Government of Pakistan Gazette18Counterfoils of passes of permission to occupy buildings and Roads Department Rest Houses2Stereo B. and R No. 8739Annual statement of inferior pensionable servants in service on 1st April40Station correspondence book between the Divisional officers and sub Divisional Officers241Nil forms242Composition passes243Small size Note books344Director General of Stores rate lists classes A to G345Annual Report of the Working of District boards3
  Note Books curtaining unimportant date and not be recorded for more than a year and may be destroyed at the end of this period after they have been carefully examined by the Divisional officer.
May be retained longer at the discretion of the Head of Officer

APPENDIX -II
APPENDIX-II CONTD
No of formsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil1234546Divisional progress reportsPermanently
3PermanentlyStereo B. and R.
Nos .51 and 5247Annual report of the working of public Health administration in West Pakistan3Ditto.48Registers of tenders received3Stereo B. and R.
No.349Transfer , etc order350Divisional officers acknowledgement of responsibility551Road inspector’s Note book352Annual Reports on the Railways in Pakistan553Annual Reports on the working of municipalities554List of officers occupying public buildings (copy)555Correspondence regarding minor works annual and petty repairs5 latest edition only to be retuned56GazetteersPermanently57Printed list of periodical returns due to and from Divisional and Circle officers5 latest edition only to be retuned58Punjab Famine CodeDitto59Army RegulationsDitto60Official Reports of the Legislative Assembly Debates and indices thereto10
APPENDIX-II CONTD
No of formsDescriptionMINIMUM PERIOD FIXED IN YEAR FOR PRESERVATIONRemarksOriginal or foilCopy or copy foil1234561Sounding Register of bridgesPermanentlyPermanently62Register of progress and instruction5Provided the sub Divisional officer certifies that no claim has been put in during 3 years (Buildings and Roads only.63Register of landPermanently..64Register of incumbentsPermanently..65Pass Book Saving bookTo be retained so long as the security pledged to Executive Engineers is not refunded to the person concerned..66Register of requisitions10 years..67Register of Service bookPermanently..68Register of property other than Government buildings owned by government which can be leased or letPermanently..69Register or voucher slips5 years..70Register of quinquinial revision of rents of residential buildings20 years..71Note books20 years..72Check Measurements statements5 years..
APPENDIX -IV
(REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 2.101
SANITARY RULES ON EXTENSIVE WORKS.
       1. On recruitment, members of a laborer force, including women and children attached, should be vaccinated against smallpox and receive anti-typhoid Inoculation. Should. Cholera be present anywhere In the Province they should also receive anti-cholera inoculation.
      Prior to engagement, inquiry should be made from individuals regarding bowel diseases, particularly chronic dysentery. Any individual suffering there from should be excluded from. The force. Such individuals are uneconomic from a labour point of view and are a danger to the force as a whole. So also are individuals infected with malaria. Spleen examination should be carried out en all candidates for work and any one suffering from enlargement of special should be	put	under	treatment	with	quinine.
      Malaria is a particularly dangerous diseases wherever large forces of labour are congregated and. especially where labour has been Imported into the area from outside and local condition are such as to permit of mosquito breeding. Every effort should be undertaken where necessary and every case of malaria, whether fresh or relapse, should be thoroughly treated With quinine.
      Precautions should be taken In the course of construction work of a vidocreating conditions	conducive	to	mosquito	breeding.
      2. The great requisites for preserving the health of workpeople may be conveniently considered under the following four heads, viz., shelter, food, water and conservancy. The measures which should be adopted on the actual appearance of disease, and specially of and disease likely to assume an epidemic, form, will be separately discussed.
      (a) Huts of sun dry bricks with chappar on top can be constructed at little expense In most parts of the country, and they will be sufficient for the accommodation of workpeople for short periods.
      In erecting them it is of great importance to select a good site high ground removed from Jungle but well provided with three ought to be chosen wherever it is available. The neighborhood of rank jungle grass or weeds is particularly to be avoided. The huts themselves should be raised on an earthen plinth of 2 feet; and with open spaces of at least 10 yards between different rows. When good natural site cannot be procured ,the drainage should be particularly attended to, whenever, owing to swampy or otherwise unhealthy situation, the sides should be carefully and thinly plastered with mud so as to exclude the night air, and In such circumstances it will also be advisable that the people should sleep on raised costs
      It is very important that then should be no overcrowding; each person should be allowed at lease 54 superficial feet and care should be taken to see that the huts are kept clean and in good order
      (b) As regards food, no special managements will be necessary in places where the work- people can draw their supplies from a neighboring market without any difficulty. 265
      Where no such facilities exist, It will be advisable o organize a bazaar and to see that the food provided is suitable both as regards quantity and quality. It is of importance also to secure a sufficient variety and in addition to the ordinary staple articles of diet suchas atta rice dal ghee and condiments, such valuable additions to diet as meat, fowls, fruit and vegetable should not be omitted.	A	supply	of	good	milk	is	necessary.
(c) Good and pure drinking water Is of hardly less consequence than good food. Wells should be covered and fitted with sonic form of apparatus for drawing water which does not necessitate the introduction into the well of any vessel or bucket handled by any individual able.
A	hand pump	or	hand persain wheel is a suit form of	apparatus.
If the	only	source	of	water-supply be a	pond	It should	be	adequately
fenced off; water should be pumped from it and led through clarification and chlorination tanks a	to	a	storage	and	distribution	tank	with	tapes.
(d) General cleanliness of the lines and their vicinity should be enforced . As the encampment will probably be constantly moving with the progress of the work, it is often Impracticable to establish regular latrines. Under the circumstances the trench system most suitable. Every morning one or, more fresh trenches should be dug according to the number of people to be provided for. They should not be deeper than one foot and should be covered in daily. The greatest dangers likely to arise from trench latrines, are
(i) Contamination of water, and
(ii) Fly breeding.
      In selecting a place for trenches, it is indisputable then they should be removed as far as possible, consistent with convenience, from the water-supply.
      Fly breeding can be prevented if encrets be properly covered with dry earth immediately on deposition and the trench filled in ‘at the end of each day.
      The Importance of preventing fly-breeding cannot be over emphasized since flea are carriers of deadly disease, particularly bowl diseases, such as dysentery, typhoid fever and cholera.
   3.	The precautions referred to in the foregoing paragraphs, If carefully attended to, are
calculated to safeguard the health of the people employed.
      Should sickness occur in a labour force, that disease which are liable to assume epidemic proportions require special attention. The more important of these are:-
      Smallpox, cholera, plague, plague, influenza and enteric, relapsing and are brospinal fevers, but other infectious diseases require that special precautions be taken.
      On the occurrence of a case of infectious disease the patient should be removed at once to an Infectious Diseases hospital or Dispensary, If one exists in the neighboring station, and the District Medical officer of Health notified. The latter will arrange for the necessary measures to be undertaken for the immunization of contacts and the prevention ‘of spread of the disease. If there be no special hospital or dispensary for the
       reception of sucks case, the patient must be collated In a separated hut well removed from the main camp. All communications between the case and the camp should be restricted the absolute minimum. On termination of the illness clothing bedding and all other Infected articles should either be thoroughly disinfected or destroyed by burning according to the instructions of the District Medical Officer of health
       The occurrence of a case of choleras should at once be notified to the District Medical Officer of Health by telegram of through a special messenger. The patient should be Isolated. Body discharges should be received in respectable containing a suitable disinfectant and should be disposed of by burning or burial. All local sources or water supply such as wails should be disposed by treatment with potassium permanganate or chlorine according to the Instructions of the Medical Officer of Health. Articles of food awl drink must be protected from files and dust, and all water and milk boiled before consumption. Uncooked food, particularly fruits and salads, should be avoided. All individual should be inoculated against cholera as early as possible and contacts kept under surveillance for a period of at least a week all cases of diarrhea should be isolated, treated with Tombs’ Essential Oil Mixture —A”, and kept under observation.
Similar precautions must. be observed on the occurrence of typhoid fever or dysentery.
       Smallpox will not occur in a labour force if vaccination has been thoroughly carried cut on recruitment.
All cases of malaria should receive adequate quinine treatment.
Should plague occur the strictest precautions must be taken at
once to prevent Its spread. Cases mist he isolated, protective inoculation carried out and antirat and antifles measures instituted.
4. The following rules should be observed for the disinfection of biding and clothing
(1) All articles that may, be any chance, have come In contact with a case of infectious disease must
   be disinfected.
   (2) Straw, rags and articles of no value should be burnt.
   (3) clothing bedding! etc., should be completely immerse in boiling point for fifteen minutes the
clothing, should sub Sequent be dried in the sun.
(4) The cot, articles of furniture the, ‘floor, etc. should be scrubbed with a solution of per chloride of mercury 1: 1,000 or with a solution of carbolic acid 1:20 or with a solution of lzal 1.600, and subsequently washed
   (5) The room should be thoroughly aired and the walls lime washed.
5.	The general sanitation of the area in which a labour force of operation should be under the
control of the ‘District Medical Officer of health and a subordinate Health Officer should be specially engaged to Institute and supervise all health measures necessary for the wellbeing of the Workers.
6.	The question of general medical supervision apart from Infectious disease has to e considered,. It
Will be advisable that a Sub Assistant or Assistant Surgeon with a small hospital should be attached to each large gang, or set of gauge, of work. people. In most cases, a central
Appendix -IV	Chap. V]
      Establishment will be sufficient for several mike of work. The hospital should be reserved for treating accidents and eases of a trifling nature, in which complete recovery may be soon expected. As a rule, It will be better to transfer the sick suffering from more severe illness to the neighboring station where they can be better cared for. It is also necessary that the Assistant Surgeon or Sub Assistant Surgeon should be under supervision. Whenever circumstances admit of it, the camp should be frequently visited by the Civil Surgeon of the District. Even when distant, from his headquarters, it is very desirable that he should pay at least one visit In the month to ascertain that the Sub. Assistant or Assistant Surgeon is carrying on his duties properly. A weekly report should be submitted by the Sub. Assistant or Assistant Surgeon to the Civil Surgeon, Re would thus he informed of what as going on, and on the occurrence of any emergency his services would always be available when called for by the Engineer Incharge.
       (REFUND IN NOTE 3 TO P.F.R .8.3 AND P.F.R.15.2) RULES FOR THE SUPPLY OF AFT ICES FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE (PUNJAB STORIES PURCHASE RULES 1851.
PREAMBLE
      The policy of the Government of the Punjab is to make their purchases of stores for the public service in ouch a way as to encourage the development or the industries of the country In general and of the Punjab in particular to the utmost possible extent consistent with economy and efficiency, Condition regarding quality and price being equal, preference In making purchases will be given in the following order-
(i) Firstly, to articles which are produced in Pakistan In the form of raw materials or are manufactured in Pakistan from raw materials, produced in Pakistan; further preference should be given to article produced in the Punjab;
(ii) Secondly, to articles wholly or partly manufactured in Pakistan from Imported material materials further preference should be given to articles produced in the Punjab;
(iii) Thirdly, to articles of foreign manufacture held In stock in Pakistan provided they are of suitable type and requisite quality.
      (iv) Fourthly, to articles manufactured abroad which need to be specially Imported.
   Even when conditions of quality, and price are not equal preference should normally be given to articles which are produced In Pakistan too In form of raw materials or are manufactured in Pakistan from materials produced in Pakistan (Further preference to be given to articles produced or manufactured In the Punjab), provided the quality Is sufficiently good for the purpose and the price Is reasonable. But the assent of the Finance Department will be required In all such cases except where In any one case the total loss to Government. Involved iii purchasing the more expensive article of Pakistan manufacture does not exceed Rs. 200.
   In pursuance of‘ this policy the following rules, are prescribed: and except In the case of those stores and articles for the purchase of which special orders are Issued by the Punjab Government, these rules are applicable to all purchases of stores made through the Provincial Stores Purchase Department and to all purchases of stores made by the Heads of the Departments and other officers who are empowered to purchase stores whether through the Provincial	Stores	Purchase	Department	or	otherwise.
   Note (1)—For other instructions relating to perusable see annexure A Note (2)—Nothing In the following rules shall restrict the respectability of a officer of the Public Works Department to undertake works n an	emergency.
RULES
Rule I—officers or departments desiring to purchase stress shall submit their Indents to the Stores Purchase Department which shall place the order for purchase except when otherwise provided in the rules or where the Stores purchase officer authorizer the direct purchase of any articles which in his opinion can most conveniently or cheaply he purchased by Indenting officers. If their articles required are such as are not stocked or manufactured in Pakistan. The indenting officers is at liberty to make or manufactured in Pakistan the indenting officer is at liberty to make inquires from manufactures or their local representatives if any independently.
      of the Provincial Stone purchase Department, with a view to Indicating precisely in the indent details regarding specifications design etc, so as to assist the Department in placing the order speedily.
      Rule 2- Except as prodded for In Rile 7 all articles required to be purchased for the public service shall be purchased on the condition that delivery shall be made in Pakistan for payment in rupees in Pakistan.
      Rule 3 .‘tenders shall be incited in Pakistan and also abroad when considered desirable by the authority competent to place an order to purchase stores for the supply of all articles which are purchased under rules 2,4 and 5, unless a rate or running contract exists for the supply of the articles or unless the value of the order to be placed is a small or unless there are sufficient reasons which should be recorded in writing to indicate that it is not in the public interest to call for tenders no tender which fails to comply with the conditions as to delivery and payment prescribed in rule 2 above shall be accepted.
      The indenting officers should anticipate their needs and inform the stores purchase officer well in advance so that he may have sufficient time to cal for tenders and to make suitable arrangements for the supply of stores
       Note —The following procedure for inviting tenders shall be followed as far as practicable.
   (1) Tenders should be obtained
      (i) by advertisement (open tender)
      (ii) direct Invitation to a limited number of firms (limited tender),
      (iii) by Invitation to one firm only (single tender or private purchase)
      (b) Open Tender—or all cases in which the estimated value at the tender to be received is
      Rs. 5,000 or above tenders will be invited by public advertisement.
(e) limited Tenders- In cases in which the estimated value of the tender to be received is less than Rs.5,000 tender may be invited from a limited number of firms
(d) Single Tender- in the case of small orders or when the articles required are of a proprietary character and competition is not considered necessary tender may be invited from one firm only.
Rules 4- (a ) All articles whether manufactured in Pakistan or abroad shall before acceptance be subject to inspection by the consignee or the inspection committee appointed by Government or the stores purchase officer of such officer or officers as may be appointed by him in this behalf in case of a dispute however the decision of the stories have been inspected and passed except in cases otherwise provided for in the rules or where previous sanction of the Punjab government in the Administrative Department in consultation with the Finance Department for advance or earlier payment has been obtained.
   (b)	Inspection of the goods shall he carried out by the Inspecting Officer in such period as
may be specified in the order forms, and If no such period has been specified, the inspection shall be carried out within a week. of the date of the receipt of the goods by the consignee. The inspection
Appendix-V
Officer shall inform the contractor of the date on which he intends to carry out. the inspection, and shall also invite him to be present at the inspection if the latter so desires
      (c) When the contracted goods are delivered personally hr the contract tor or his representative, the consignee shall issue a receipt to him of the goods received and shall keep the material in safe custody till the tune of inspection. -
      (a) The inspection officer other than the stores Purchase Officer shall immediately inform the Stores Purchase Officer, and the contractor In writing about the goods rejected by him giving his reasons tot rejecting them. He shall also ask the contractor to remove the goods within ten days from the date of receipt of the information by him. After the expiry of this period the consignee will not be responsible for any data to them. If the goods are accepted, the bills of the contractor shall be paid by the indenting Officer within one month from the date of acceptance of the goods . The contractor shall be asked to replace the rejected goods within the period specified by the consignee. Intimation regarding rejection, replacement, removal of sooth, etc., shall be made by a registered notice, acknowledgement due. If on receipt of the registered notice of rejection, the contractor claims that the goods are in accordance with the specifications laid down in the order, or the sealed sample, he may prefer and appeal to the Stores Purchase Officer, under intimation to the consignee under registered cover within five days from the date of receipt of the notice. When such an appeal has been preferred the consignee will keep the goods in his own custody until final decision by the Store Purchase Officer, West Pakistan.. In case the goods have been inspected and rejected by an Officer or Officers of the Stores Purchase Department, the contractor may prefer an appeal to the West Pakistan Government in the Department dealing with the Stores Purchase Organization for final decision,
      Rule 5—(l) Except as provided in rule 7 of the rules, all plan and machinery shall be purchased in Pakistan though the Stores Purchase officer, West Pakistan. and unless otherwise agreed upon in any particular case, payment for the plant and machinery will be made by the Indenting: Officer as follows:-
        (i) eighty percent of the contract price will be paid on deliver; of the plant;
(iii) twenty percent of the contract price plus the cost of erections the erection has to be made by the supplier, will be paid on final Inspection and test or alternative the erection has to be made by the supplier option the full hundred percent will be paid after erection or and final inspection and test in the former case the supplying firm will be required to given undertaking to replace the machinery wholly or in part in case it is not up to specifications or dose not give proper performance.
      In exceptional cases, where payment of the 213 percent referred to in clause (ii) above is necessary above is necessary before required test are complete the previous approval of government the Administrative Department should be obtained ordinarily all test should be completed within 3 months of the supply of stores .
            Note- consent of the Finance department to the payment of the full value of stores prior to the requisite tests being complied with is not presumed
APPENDIX-V
(1) Iron end steel articles such as bridge ii den, root trusses. Roof trusses steel beams, rails angle irons or other sections shall be obtained in Pakistan only from firms approved by the Stores Purchase officer and entered in a list maintained by him for the purpose
(3) Purchases referred to in sub-rules (I) arid (2) above shall be made or arranged for r by the Store,‘ Purchase Officer in consultation with the indenting Officer in consultation with the indenting officer in case of disagreement he former may refer the matter to the head of the Department concerned and if the stores purchase officer and the head of the department will refer the matter to Government in the department dealing with the stores purchase organization
   Rule- 6-	nothing in these rules shall be deemed to prohibit the purchase of articles by one
   department from another.
   Rule 7-	When suitable purchases of plant and machinery or other r stores cannot be made
in Pakistan end the Stores Purchase officer certifies this fact an indenting department may obtain them from abroad through the supply and development department government of Pakistan, Karachi through which the arrangements for purchase shall be made.
   Rule 8-	In cases of emergency when inconvenience to the public service is likely to be
caused by waiting to obtain an article through the Provincial Stores Purchase Department, a competent authority may purchase in Pakistan articles not manufactured in Pakistan up (up to a limit of Rs 5,00 For purchases between . 500 and Rs. 1,000 he must obtain the sanction of the Head of his Department. The authority making such purchases or sanctioning such purchases must within 15 days inform the Stores Purchase officer of the reasons which led him to exercise these emergency powers. For direct purchases over Rs. 1,000 the previous sanctions of the West Pakistan Government in the Administrative Department dealing with the Stores Purchase Organization or the Finance Department as the case may be, must be obtained,
Note - term competent authority means an authority who has general special powers incur expenditure on the purchase of stores.
Rule 9 —Where for any article the Provincial Stores Purchase Department, has arranged a rate or a running contract, the Indenting officers shall obtain their requirements of that article in terms of the rate of the running contract and no indent should be sent to the stores purchase officer -
Rule 10—Subject to any rate or running contracts arranged by the Provincial Stores Purchase Department articles of the classes detailed below may be purchased direct from the- local market.
(1) Articles of perishable and fragile nature and inflammable and volatile articles.
(2) Spare parts of machinery and articles urgently required to effect repairs (not exceeding Rs. 100 in value).
(3) Articles In common use, provided the cost of a. particular article does not exceed Es. 100 In each case. Purchase should not unnecessarily be split up to snake their value Rs. 100 or lower,
(4) Live stock seeds, country carts yokes and country plough
(5) Material such as sand, kankar. store. lime. etc
273 [Chap. V
Rule 11-The West Pakistan Government in the Department dealing with the Stores Purchase Organization in consultation with the Finance Department, where necessary, may sanction a departure from these rules in any individual oases if the interests of the Public Service so required. All applications for sanction to such departures should be made through. the Administrative Department concerned:-
   Rule 12-Recoveries made from contractors on account of-
      (a) delay	In	supply	of	stores,	and
(b) excess cost of the repurchase when It is found necessary to cancel a contract, should in the first instance, be credited to a suspense head. When the amount is eventually determined it should be credited as revenue of the department concerned, or in the case of departments not having a corroding receipt head, under the head XXXII—industries Stores Purchase Department.
      Recoveries may, where. Stores are indented for on capital account be adjusted in reduction of expenditure under the capital major bead concerned.
Rule 13-All subordinate offices will submit to their respective Head of Department not later than the 1st May In each year an annual return of expenditure on Stores in the form in Annexure 6. The Heads of Departments w U consolidate the returns received from subordinate offices and forward to the Provincial Stores Purchase Department by the 1st June in each year a consolidated annual return In the same form after including therein the expenditure incurred by the head office. The Stores Purchase Department will in turn prepare a Provincial Government by the -1st August in each year. Instructions for the preparation of these returns are given In Annexure B and should be carefully observed.
      Rule 14-Officers from Pakistan who visit the United Kingdom in order to make enquiries with a view to arrange purchases, especially of machinery, should place themselves In touch with the Pakistan Stores Department, London, and Its experts.
      Rule 15.-The Provincial Stores Purchase Department is authorized to make purchases of stores on behalf of local bodies and commercial departments on payment of departmental charge. The rate of such charges shall be 2 per cent of the values of stores purchased when Inspection is carried out by the Department, even though periodically, and 1 per cent in other case. Local bodies should remit departmental charges by cheques or bank drafts in favour of the Assistant Stores Purchase Officer, Punjab Immediately after an order is placed on their behalf. Recovery of departmental charges from commercial departments shall be made by book transfer.
ANNEXURE -A
INSTRUCTIONS RELATING TO THE PREAMBLE
1. These rules express a definite preference for articles which are produced in Pakistan in general and in the Punjab in particular in the form of raw materials or are manufactured in the Pakistan from raw materials produced in Pakistan and also for articles wholly or partially manufactured in the Pakistan from Imported materials. They extend also a preference (but not in price) to articles of foreign manufacture stocked in Pakistan over those which have to be specially imported.
2. The difference in the character of the preference which may be given should be carefully noted. In the case of the first two categories mentioned in the Preamble, the condition is that the quality is sufficiently good for the purposes, and for the third category that the articles are of suitable type and requisite quality. This means that articles coming under the first two categories should be accepted, unless it is considered that the quality Is definitely not up to the standard required, even though • imported articles may be considered to be of better quality.
3. The other kind of preference referred to in those rules is price preference and it is enjoined that a limited price preference may be given to articles produced or manufactured in the West Pakistan in particular and in Pakistan in general either wholly or in part. It should be noted that no price preference should be given to articles falling in the third category over those which come within the last category.
4. A strict comparison with prices prevailing abroad is not required, but the underlying principle is that the preference to be accorded to West Pakistan or Pakistan products is to be tempered by considerations of economy and should discriminate between articles made from Pakistan and from imported raw materials.
5. Ordinarily a limited degree of price preference in favour of articles produced or manufactured in the West Pakistan in particular and in Pakistan in general will be justified for one or other or the following reasons
 (a) When the Industry in question Is expected to 611 a vital gap in the economic life of the country and Is likely to tale a firm root In the soil in the near future.
(b) To prevent any sudden dislocation of the labour market on a large scale.
(c) To regulate and control foreign competition specially during periods of temporary trade depression abroad.
(d) To counteract the advantage to foreign Industries arising from the depreciation of the currency of the of the in question or the like.
6 Price preference will be given subject to the previous approval of jibe West Pakistan Government or subject to such rides as may be prescribed by them
ANNEXURE -B.
(See Rule 13)
ABSTRACT RETURN OP EXPENDITURE ON STORIED
PURCHASE BY THE DEPARTMENT, DURING 19-19
1, (a) All subordinate offices will submit this return to their respective Heads of Departments not later than the let may in each year. -
(b) The Heads of Departments will consolidate the returns received from subordinate offices and forward to the Provincial Stores Purchase Department by the let June in each year a consolidated annual return in this form after including there in the expenditure incurred by the head office.
      (c) The Stores Purchase Department will in turn prepare a provincial consolidated statement	In	this	form	and	forwarded
   it to Provincial Government by the 1st August in each year.
      2. The return is intended to show the extent to which the requirements of the public services are being met by the purchase of stores of local and foreign manufacture of supply.
      3. The return should be accompanied by a short review by the Read of the Department explaining the cause of important variations under any head compared with the previous year. Heads of Departments are responsible for preparing the return from records of purchases in their own offices, and from the annual returns submitted to them by subordinate offices.
      4. Purchases should be recorded for the financial year during which payment was made, annas and pies should be omitted from the totals under each head.
      5. Efforts have been made to give an exhaustive classification in the return. If however, doubt arises as to the correct head to which any purchase should be allocated, reference may be made to the Stores Purchase Officer, West Pakistan,
      6. The Purchases made by the Stores Purchase Department en behalf of local bodies will be shown In a separate return.
7. The following purchases should be excluded from the return :-
   (a) Purchases of stores of foreign manufacture by one Department from another, and
   (b) Purchase of bricks and Pakistan lime and mortar.
Value of stores produced in Pakistan   Classes head and sub headsValue of stores purchased in the united kingdom or any other country aboard with name of countryValue of imported stores purchased in
PakistanCost of stores obtained from West Pakistan Government Departments and factoriesCost of goods obtained from sources other than those mentioned in column 4Remarks123     45     6A -Bridge works
B- Engineers plant excluding petty tools C- workshop machinery and heavy tools
     i	Machinery
     ii	Steam rollers
     iii Trucks
     iv Motor cars
     v	Cycles
vi Other vehicles F- Tools and stores not
Specially provided for under F.
a) Tools b) Stores -
1. Hardware and unmanufactured Lamps and lamwere other than glass parts
     2. Wire
3. Metals unmanufactured:. Brass Copper iron

Value of stores produced in Pakistan   Classes head and sub headsValue of stores purchased in the united kingdom or any other country aboard with name of countryValue of imported stores purchased in
    PakistanCost of stores obtained from West Pakistan Government Departments and factoriesCost of goods obtained from sources other than those mentioned in column 4  Remarks123       4       5       64.Metals unmanufactured Concld
     Lead Steel Tin Zion Aluminum Miscellaneous 5.Timber 6.Hides and skins 7. Leather and manufacture of leather
8. India rubber goods
9. Paints colors and varnishes
10. Lubricating oils
11. Grease
12. Furniture
13. Canvas tents tarpaulin and waterproof goods
  14. Cotton goods
15. Linen goods
16. Silk goods
17. Woolen gods
Value of stores produced in Pakistan   Classes head and sub headsValue of stores purchased in the united kingdom or any other country aboard with name of countryValue of imported stores purchased in
    PakistanCost of stores obtained from West Pakistan Government Departments and factoriesCost of goods obtained from sources other than those mentioned in column 4  Remarks123       4       5       618. Miscellaneous apparel and equipment including badges etc
19. Cordage ropes thread ball twines tapes etc
20. Chemicals drugs and medicals drugs
21. Scientific and surgical instruments
22. Earthenware glass glassware crockery and outlawry
23. Asphalt bitumen maxphalt etc
     24. Pitch and coaltar
25. Coal cake and other fuels
     26. Matches
     27. Cement
     28. Soaps
     29. Tallow
     30. Wax
     31. Wines and sprits
32. Mentholated spirit petrol
     33. Petrol
     34. Kerosene oil
35. Enamel wares

Value of stores produced in Pakistan   Classes head and sub headsValue of stores purchased in the united kingdom or any other country aboard with name of countryValue of imported stores purchased in
    PakistanCost of stores obtained from West Pakistan Government Departments and factoriesCost of goods obtained from sources other than those mentioned in column 4  Remarks123       4       5       6     35. Bruches
     36. Sanitary goods
     37. Steel furniture
38. Bakelite and allied goods
     39. Buttons
     40. Dyes
41. Jute hamp and their manufactured goods
     42. Bamboo
     43. Tazile yarns
44. Sewing machines and parts
45. Vernary instruments and appliances etc
46. Miscellaneous G. Electrical plants and materials
1. Electrical plant
2. Instruments and apparatus
3. transmission and destruction materials
4. electrical lamps fans etc
5. belts batteries etc.

Value of stores produced in Pakistan   Classes head and sub headsValue of stores purchased in the united kingdom or any other country aboard with name of countryValue of imported stores purchased in
    PakistanCost of stores obtained from West Pakistan Government Departments and factoriesCost of goods obtained from sources other than those mentioned in column 4  Remarks123       4       5       61. foodstuffs:-
     2. Foods
     3. Oilseeds
     4. Tinned foods
     5. Gnee
     6. Vegetable ghee
     7. Edible oils
     8. Fats
     9. Gut
     10. Sugar
     11. Spices
     12. Animal fodders
     13. Miscellaneous
     1. Miscellaneous
     2. Radio sets
gramophones musical instruments
     3. Weighing machines
         weights and balances
     4. Survey and drawing
         instruments
     5. Umbrellas
     6. Miscellaneous
APPENDIX - VI
(Referred to in paragraph 2.70 (2)
INSTRUCTION OF THE GUIDANCE OF SUPERINTENDING ENGINEERS ACTING AS ARBITRATORS
1. It should be remembered that reference to arbitration is intended to be an expeditious.
Inexpensive and decisive method of settling a dispute relating to a contract without resort to the dilatoriness, intricacies and complications of Civil litigation.. The Superintending Engineer when moved as arbitrator should, keeping these principles in view, do justice to the claims of both sides within the limitations imposed by the clause which empowers him to etc. -
2. The points which Superintending Engineer qua arbitrator should bear in mind in settling a dispute are as fallen:—
(a) On receipt of notice or letter of reference to arbitrator the Superintending Engineer should see that the letter of arbitrator and is signed by an officer competent to bind Government, i.e. by an officer not below the rank of Divisional Officer, He cannot, of course, refer the point for arbitration to himself. If satisfied that the points are clear and within his jurisdiction as arbitrator, he should then issue to both parties concerned notice of the date, place and time fixed for the appearance of the parties, or their representatives, and for the production of witnesses and documentary evidence) restating precisely the‘ points referred for arbitration and that those matters will be finally determined by him as arbitrator, and that if either party fails to attend the matter may be decided a-parts.
      In such notice it should be explained that he. as arbitrator, has no power to summon witnesses but that-if either petty requires the other to produce any documents in the possession or power of the other he must inform the arbitrator in good time (not less than seven days) before the date fixed as above
(b) He should thereafter, before arriving at, or in ally case before recording any decision, give each side further reasonable opportunity to adduce evidence, oral or documentary. which they may wish- to bring (in the presence of the other) and he should listen (within reason) to any arguments which they may wish to present at the conclusion of the evidence. These proceedings should be conducted in the presence of both parties to the dispute or their legal representatives. If, however, either of the parties is absent on any hearing of which he has had due^ notice, the arbitrator may proceed ex-parte , after recording a formal order to that effect. The Superintending Engineer should keep a brief note of the proceedings recording to the pretence of the parties before him and the fact of his having conformed ‘to the procedure herein suggested. He should also record briefly the statements of witness. But subject to these observations the proceedings may be conducted with out any special formalities.
APPENDIX-VI	Chap-VI
(c )	When the dispute is ripe for decision the Superintending Engineer should give a
decisive award and should avoid any vagueness or indefiniteness which might render the award incapable of execution. Here it should be noted that he does not require any reasons to be recorded in justification of decision.
(d)	In giving his decision the arbitrator must confine himself to the matters referred to him
for arbitration. He should refrain from giving any decision on matters not referred to him for arbitration.
      Particular care should be taken to decline to make an award any matter which does not fall within the terms of the Contract, and on claims to which Government have not already agreed, e.g. claims of extraordinary in completing a work before the contractual period at the request of the Engineer Incharge of the work of claims for compensation where work has been brought to a stand still through no fault of the contractor. In such cases the claimant should be merely directed to submit his claim to the proper authority for consideration of Government as the	claim	falls	outside	the	arbitrator	Jurisdiction-
      (c) In giving his decision the arbitrator should apply the principle of justice equity and good conscience and. refrain from any intricate legal or general discussions. He should as far as possible, abstain from reference as to matters outside the scope of the particular contract which he is called on to interpret.
      (f) If at any time prior to signing the award the arbitrator receives notice of the fact that a suit has been lodged relating to matters referred to arbitration the arbitrator should at least pause sufficiently to ascertain whether a ‘suit has been lodged prior to the reference to arbitration and, if so, or in any case I! restrained by injunction postpone all further proceedings unless and until the suit is stayed.
      (g) If under Article 12 of the Stamp Act the decision of n arbitrator when recorded will require stamp he should inform the parties of the amount (referring the question if in doubt to the local Collector) and leave the instrument unsigned until -one or other-party provides the amount payable.
3. The necessity for these instructions will be apparent from a reference to sections 20 and
21 of the second Schedule of the Civil Procedure Code (of the corresponding provisions of the —Indian Arbitration Act as adapted by Pakistan” Arbitration Act where applicable). It is open to either party on the award being announced to move a civil court having jurisdiction to pass judgment according to the terms the award, and the civil court when thus moved is bound to decree - the award as made by the arbitrator, unless the opposite party can show that the award should be remitted or set aside for any of the -reasons given in sections 14 and 15 of the Second Schedule of the Civil Procedure Code, eta. If, however, the Superintending Engineer conforms to the directions suggested, there be imperative no ground for- remission unless (matters which is outside the superintending Engineer‘s control). It should subsequently be made to spear that that either party has been guilty of 		concealment or of willfully misleading the arbitrator,
CHAP -V	APPENDIX —VI
4. Subject to these observation the decision of the Superintending Engineer as arbitrator
would be final and binding on both parties.
5. In all cases of arbitration in which the amount of the award exceeds Es. 2,000 copy of
the award should be forwarded to the West Pakistan Government for information.
6. Intimations regarding awards made by Superintending Engineers should in all cases be
sent to the Director Audit and Accounts Works, West Pakistan, Lahore. for audit purposes.
7. The award made by an arbitrator is binding on both parties and there can be no question
of the Audit Department or of - Government criticizing the action of the arbitrator unless misfeasance or malfeasance is so clearly apparent as to render it imperative for Government to take legal action to have the award made by the arbitrator set aside. As, however, it is desirable that the Audit Department should be in a-position to ascertain whether the arbitration proceedings resulted from the failure of the Departmental Officers concerned to carry oat their duties properly, it is necessary, to acquaint the Director Audit and Accounts Works, West Pakistan with the entire circumstances necessitating a reference to arbitration. To enable .this to be done, the department in which a case is referred, to arbitration should in future prepare a memorandum showing the full facts dealing with the circumstances leading up to arbitration and stressing whether or not there has been any failure on the part of any Departmental Officers concerned which has contributed to the need for arbitration. The memorandum should be Prepared as soon as arbitration proceedings are completed and sent to the Finance Department for consideration and then, on receipt of the latter‘s observations, forwarded to the Director Audit and	Accounts, Works.	West Pakistan	to enable him to decide whether or	not
the case	is a fit one	for report to	the Legislative	Assembly through	his
Appropriation Accounts. -
APPENDIX VII
INSTRUCTIONS TO BE Observed WREN A DIVISION, SUB.
DIVISION IS AMALGAMATED WITH ANOTHER DIVISION,
SUB-DIVISION AND WHEN A NEW DIVISION/SUB.
- DIVISION IS FORMED BY SEPARATION FROM
AN OLD ONE (REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 4-57).
1.	While transferring the record of transactions from the books of a Division/Sub-Division
which is to be closed to those of the Division Sub-Division with which it is to be amalgamated, though following instructions should he observed strictly
(i) Cask—The Divisional anti the Sub Divisional Accounts including imprests should be
closed on the date fixed for the abolition and the unspent cash balances, if any should be paid into the Treasury on that date to the credit of Buildings and Roads Department by the closing Division. The unspent balances of Salary and Travelling Allowance, etc., of the Establishments should, however, be made over to the Executive Engineer, of the Division with which the Accounts are to be amalgamated and the acknowledgments of the money thus handed over should be sent to the Audit Officer.
(ii) suspense and Deposit Balance The balances outstanding, the suspense accounts including stock purchase, Miscellaneous advances and in the Schedule of P W. Deposits. the date of abolition of the Divisional Sub Division will be closed and transferred to the new Division through book and adjustment as noted below
Credit By Debit to
CreditBy Debit toStock--For stock balance (including manufactureTransfer between facture) Buildings and Roads Officer (New Division.Miscellaneous advances—For any balance Ditto. at debit of this headDittoPublic works deposits stock purchases
Stock purchasesFor and balance at credit of this head( transfer between buildings and roads officers new Division )
The items will then be brought in details into the accounts of the amalgamated Division by converse entries.
(iii) Works-All expenditure incurred on unfinished works should be included in the progressive figures of works accounts by the amalgamated Division/Sub-Division, as if it was incur‘ red in that Division/Subdivision in the first instance no transfer of expenditure need be made through the Remittance Schedule. Similarly, all arrears due to contractors, piece workers, laborers or work-charged establishment will be brought on to several schedules of the amalgamated Division/Sub-Division and cleared in the ordinary course as if they had originated in that Division/Sub-Division. In this connection particular emphasis is laid on the extracts from contractors ledgers which should be complete and brought up- to-date in all respect s before a Division/Sub-Division is to be abolished. The amalgamated Division will then incorporate the transactions in . its schedule in the manner explained above. A list of all works in progress will be supplied to the amalgamated Division/Sub- Division and to the director, Audit and Accounts (Works). The register of works and other relevant works record should be transferred to the amalgamated Division.
APPENDIX -VII
(iv) Grant—The unspent balance of the grant at the disposal of the closing Division! Sub-Division will be transferred by formal re appropriation to the amalgamated Division/Sub-division by the Superintending Engineer/ Executive Engineer.
     (v)
(v) Drawing Accounts—The Drawing accounts with the Treasury of the Divisional and Sub Divisional Officer should be closed and the unused cheques and Receipt Books transferred to the amalgamated Division Sub Davison under intimation to the Treasury Officer with whom, they are in accounts.
     (vi)
(vi) Stores—the half-yearly register of stock (W. P. A. Form 12) and the register of tools and plants (W. P.A. Form 15) should be closed. All articles in hand should be made over to and shown as Issued to the amalgamated Division/Sub-Division so that the return of the closing Division/ Sub-Division may close with nil‘ balance. Copies of these returns should be sent to the Executive Engineer of the amalgamated Division/Sub-Division who will be careful to see that the balances transferred agree with the quantities of stores actually received from the closing Division/Sub-Division and that these balances are duly brought on to the return of his Division/ Sub-Division as receipts of the month in which the amalgamation was effective.
     (vii)
(vii) Advices of Debits or Credits /Transfers within Division—An all out effort should be made by the closing Division sub -Division to adjust all advices of debits and credits /transition relating to transfers within Division/adjustment Memos. Received from the Audit Office before a Division/Sub-Division is actually closed. Such of the items which are not acknowledged in the accounts of the closing Division/Sub-Division should‘ be accepted and adjusted by the amalgamated Division(Sub-Division as if the advices were sent to itself. Similarly the debits and credits, raised against others Division/Sub-Division should be perused by the amalgamated Division/Sub-Division in the same manner as if these transactions had originated in the Division/Sub-Division itself. Special attention should be paid to the Adjustment Memos., received from the Audit Office, which must be adjusted, to the final heads under intimation to Audit Office before a Division/Sub-Division is closed. If any memo, is left un-adjusted, the same should be made over to the amalgamated	Division	under	advice	to	Audit	Office.
(viii) Liabilities not yet brought to Accounts-Liabilities not yet brought to account may be noted in the Divisional /Sub Divisional register of transfers awaited to watch their adjustment, if the same have not already been noted in the above register.
(ix) (ix) Interest Rearing Securities--The interest Bearing Securities, viz. the Post Savings Bank Pass Books, etc., should be made over and pledged to the Executive Engineer/Sub-Divisional Officer of the amalgamated division/Sub. Division to which the works of the subordinates concerned are transferred. The original security register should be sent to the amalgamated Division/Sub-Division.
(x) Revenue and Receipts Debits else to/from Government—A note containing complete information regarding the likely revenue or receipts or debits due to/from Government should be prepared by the Executive Engineer/Sub-Divisional Officer of the Division)Sub-Division under reconstitution or abolition and made over to the Executive Engineer/Sub-divisional officer of the amalgamated Division SubDivision -
Chap -V	ANNEXURE - VII
(xi) Road Metal Returns—Road Metal It turns should ho completed and the balance of read side materials as per the road metal register should be handed over the amalgamated Division/Sub-division. The Sub-Divisional Over receiving the materiel should account for the same in his books after physical verification
(xii) Measurement Books—The works —Last Entry” should be written by the Sub- Divisional Officer over his dated signature in each current measurement book before handing them over along with other completed measurement books,
(xiii) Material Accounts—The material accounts in West Pakistan Account Forms 35, 37 and 44/45 should be completed in all respects before the closing of the Division/Sub- Division. If any material account remains to be closed, the same should be handed over to the successor Division Sub-Division with, proper instructions.
(xiv) Work Order Books—Reference to voucher No. and dated in which payments have been made should be noted on each work order so as to eliminate chances of double payment.
(xv) Credit Note Books—Credit note books should be properly handed over, noting thereon the number of blank credit notes still available in the credit notes book, (xvi) Service Books and personal files—The service books and personal files, etc., should receive special attention and handed over complete to the amalgamated division.
(xvii) Copies of Contracts—the files containing copies of contracts should be handed over to the succeeding division after noting the No. 4 and date of vouchers on all contract forms, —wherever payment has already been made.
(xviii) Miscellaneous—Other Divisional and Sub-Divisional records such as —Register of Incumbents” office copies of Salary and Travelling Allowance Bills, Acquaintance Rolls and Receipts/Cheque Books,. Pass Books, Remittance Books, Transfer Entry Books Transfer Entry Order Books, vouchers and Muster Rolls, Daily Reports, Register of measurement Books, Works, Abstracts, Register of Works, Contractors Ledgers, Register of sanction to Estimates Register of Appropriation, Register of Acquisition) Surrender of land, Register of Buildings, Capital and Revenue accounts of Buildings, Service‘ Lables Books, Books of reference, Register of Property, Tender Register, Register of voucher slips. Register of Miscellaneous Revenues, Kilns Register, Register of Divisional Accountant Audit objection and Rent Register, etc., etc., should be completed in all respects and handed over to the amalgamated Division/Sub-Division.
(xix) Inspection Reports, Audit Notes and objection Statement—All inspection reports. Audit, Notes, Half Margins and objection statement, etc., issued by the Audit Once should be disposed of before‘ the Division or Sub‘ Division Is finally closed, Subsequently objection and reminders ‘should be disposed of by the succeeding Division/Sub-Division. -
(xx) W. P. A. Form 51 Settlement with Treasuries -Similarly the schedule of monthly settlement with treasuries shall be completed in all respects and sent to audit, before the	Division is closed, failing which the cause of
arrears should be similarly explained for necessary action in the succeeding Division.
2. An intimation regarding the impending closing down, amalgamation. etc., of any Division/Subdivision	should	also	be,	sent	to	the	Treasury
ANNEXURE -VII CHAP. V
      Officer‘s concerned by the Executive Engineer/Sub. Divisional Officer of the prospective defunct Division/Sub-Division and the particular date which the change is to take place so that they prepare and send C. T. R‘s, and certificates of cheques to the correct quarter. If the officerin- charge of the defunct Division/ Sub. Division fails to inform the treasury officer in time then the officer-in-charge of amalgamated Division/Subdivision should send the necessary intimation at the earliest opportunity.
3.	Although the above instructions are sufficiently elaborate, yet there might be particular
items relating to individual Divisions on :which the guidance of Audit Office to, examine the particular points in detail before Issuing further necessary particulars the Executive Officer concerned should address the Audit Office for necessary instructions at least two months in advance of the final date of the closing of the Division in accordance with requirements of paragraph 549 of West Pakistan Account Code. No such letter need however, be sent in the case of closing of a Sub-Division, unless this is extremely urgent or important, as the Divisional Accountant posted in the Division by Director, Audit and Accounts (Works) Is supposed to issue necessary instructions and watch their compliance in the light of the general instructions given above.












































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































