======================================================================
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
======================================================================

Preface - International Plumbing Code (IPC)
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2024
International Plumbing Code (IPC)
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2024 International Plumbing Code (IPC) 2024 International Fire Code (IFC) 2024 International Residential Code (IRC) 2024 International Building Code (IBC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
I-Codes
/
2024 International Plumbing Code (IPC)
Preface
2024 International Plumbing Code (IPC)
favorite_border
Version:
May 2024
Contents
Notes
Insights
Overview
Copyright
Preface
Formatting Changes to the 2024 International Codes
About the I-Codes
Introduction to the International Plumbing Code
Arrangement and Format of the 2024 IPC
Relocation of Text or Tables
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Chapter 2 Definitions
Chapter 3 General Regulations
Chapter 4 Fixtures, Faucets and Fixture Fittings
Chapter 5 Water Heaters
Chapter 6 Water Supply and Distribution
Chapter 7 Sanitary Drainage
Chapter 8 Indirect/Special Waste
Chapter 9 Vents
Chapter 10 Traps, Interceptors and Separators
Chapter 11 Storm Drainage
Chapter 12 Special Piping and Storage Systems
Chapter 13 Nonpotable Water Systems
Chapter 14 Subsurface Graywater Soil Absorption Systems
Chapter 15 Referenced Standards
Appendix A Plumbing Permit Fee Schedule
Appendix B Rates of Rainfall for Various Cities
Appendix C Structural Safety
Appendix D Degree Day and Design Temperatures
Appendix E Sizing of Water Piping System
[A] Appendix F Board of Appeals
Index
Content Updates—Version 2
Resource a Plumbing Provisions Excerpted From: ICC A117.1–2017 with Supplement 1, Standard for Accessible and Usable Buildings and Facilities
Resource B Ansi/Resnet/Iss 850-2020 Standard for the Calculation and Labeling of the Water Use Performance of One- and Two-Family Dwellings Using the Water Rating Index
Copyright
Chapter 1 Application and Administration
Chapter 3 Building Blocks
Chapter 6 Plumbing Elements and Facilities
Chapter 8 Special Rooms and Spaces
Chapter 11 Dwelling Units and Sleeping Units
Supplement 1 ICC A117.1—2017:Standard for Accessible and Usable Buildings and Facilities
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
PREFACE
FORMATTING CHANGES TO THE 2024 INTERNATIONAL CODES The 2024 International Codes®(I-Codes®) have undergone substantial formatting changes as part of the digital transformation strategy of the International Code Council®(ICC®) to improve the user experience. The resulting product better aligns the print and PDF versions of the I-Codes with the ICC’s Digital Code content. Additional information can be found at iccsafe.org/design-updates.
Replacement of Marginal Markings with QR Codes
Through 2021, print editions of the I-Codes identified technical changes from prior code cycles with marginal markings [solid vertical lines for new text, deletion arrows (), asterisks for relocations (∗)]. The 2024 I-Code print editions replace the marginal markings with QR codes to identify code changes more precisely. A QR code is placed at the beginning of any section that has undergone technical revision. If there is no QR code, there are no technical changes to that section.In the following example from the 2024 International Plumbing Code®(IPC®), a QR code indicates there are changes to Section 605 from the 2021 IPC. Note that the change may occur in the main section or in one or more subsections of the main section. To see the code changes, the user need only scan the QR code with a smart device. If scanning a QR code is not an option, changes can be accessed by entering the 7-digit code beneath the QR code at the end of the following URL: qr.iccsafe.org/ (in the above example, “qr.iccsafe.org/52e3321”). Those viewing the code book via PDF can click on the QR code.All methods take the user to the appropriate section on ICC’s Digital Codes website, where technical changes from the prior cycle can be viewed. Digital Codes Premium subscribers who are logged in will be automatically directed to the Premium view. All other users will be directed to the Digital Codes Basic free view. Both views show new code language in blue text along with deletion arrows for deleted text and relocation markers for relocated text. Digital Codes Premium offers additional ways to enhance code compliance research, including revision histories, commentary by code experts and an advanced search function. A full list of features can be found at codes.iccsafe.org/premium-features.
ABOUT THE I-CODES The 2024 I-Codes, published by the ICC, are 15 fully compatible titles, intended to establish provisions that adequately protect public health, safety and welfare; that do not unnecessarily increase construction costs; that do not restrict the use of new materials, products or methods of construction; and that do not give preferential treatment to particular types or classes of materials, products or methods of construction.The I-Codes are updated on a 3-year cycle to allow for new construction methods and technologies to be incorporated into the codes. Alternative materials, designs and methods not specifically addressed in the I-Code can be approved by the building official where the proposed materials, designs or methods comply with the intent of the provisions of the code.The I-Codes are used as the basis of laws and regulations in communities across the US and in other countries. They are also used in a variety of nonregulatory settings, including: Voluntary compliance programs. The insurance industry. Certification and credentialing for building design, construction and safety professionals. Certification of building and construction-related products. Facilities management. “Best practices” benchmarks for designers and builders. College, university and professional school textbooks and curricula. Reference works related to building design and construction.
Code Development Process
The code development process regularly provides an international forum for building professionals to discuss requirements for building design, construction methods, safety, performance, technological advances and new products. Proposed changes to the I-Codes, submitted by code enforcement officials, industry representatives, design professionals and other interested parties are deliberated through an open code development process in which all interested and affected parties may participate. Openness, transparency, balance, due process and consensus are the guiding principles of both the ICC Code Development Process and OMB Circular A-119, which governs the federal government’s use of private-sector standards. The ICC process is open to anyone without cost. Remote participation is available through cdpAccess®, the ICC’s cloud-based app.In order to ensure that organizations with a direct and material interest in the codes have a voice in the process, the ICC has developed partnerships with key industry segments that support the ICC’s important public safety mission. Some code development committee members were nominated by the following industry partners and approved by the ICC Board: American Gas Association (AGA) American Institute of Architects (AIA) American Society of Plumbing Engineers (ASPE) International Association of Fire Chiefs (IAFC) National Association of Home Builders (NAHB) National Association of State Fire Marshals (NASFM) National Council of Structural Engineers Association (NCSEA) National Multifamily Housing Council (NMHC) Plumbing Heating and Cooling Contractors (PHCC) Pool and Hot Tub Alliance (PHTA) formerly The Association of Pool and Spa Professionals (APSP) Code development committees evaluate and make recommendations regarding proposed changes to the codes. Their recommendations are then subject to public comment and council-wide votes. The ICC’s governmental members—public safety officials who have no financial or business interest in the outcome—cast the final votes on proposed changes.The I-Codes are subject to change through future code development cycles and by any governmental entity that enacts the code into law. For more information regarding the code development process, contact the Codes and Standards Development Department of the ICC at iccsafe.org/products-and-services/i-codes/code-development/.While the I-Code development procedure is thorough and comprehensive, the ICC, its members and those participating in the development of the codes expressly disclaim any liability resulting from the publication or use of the I-Codes, or from compliance or noncompliance with their provisions. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, IMPLIED, EXPRESSED OR STATUTORY, IS GIVEN WITH RESPECT TO THE I-CODES. The ICC does not have the power or authority to police or enforce compliance with the contents of the I-Codes.
Code Development Committee Responsibilities (Letter Designations in Front of Section Numbers)
In each cycle, proposed changes are considered by the Code Development Committee assigned to a specific code or subject matter. Committee Action Hearings result in recommendations regarding a proposal to the voting membership. Where changes to a code section are not considered by that code's own committee, the code section is preceded by a bracketed letter designation identifying a different committee. Bracketed letter designations for the I-Code committees are: [A] = Administrative Code Development Committee [BE] = IBC—Egress Code Development Committee [BF] = IBC—Fire Safety Code Development Committee [BG] = IBC—General Code Development Committee [BS] = IBC—Structural Code Development Committee [E] = Developed under the ICC's Standard Development Process [EB] = International Existing Building Code Development Committee [F] = International Fire Code Development Committee [FG] = International Fuel Gas Code Development Committee [M] = International Mechanical Code Development Committee [P] = International Plumbing Code Development Committee [SP] = International Swimming Pool and Spa Code Development Committee For the development of the 2027 edition of the I-Codes, the ICC Board of Directors approved a standing motion from the Board Committee on the Long-Term Code Development Process to revise the code development cycle to incorporate two committee action hearings for each code group. This change expands the current process from two independent 1-year cycles to a single continuous 3-year cycle. There will be two groups of code development committees and they will meet in separate years. The current groups will be reworked. With the energy provisions of the International Energy Conservation Code®(IECC®) and Chapter 11 of the International Residential Code® (IRC®) now moved to the Code Council's Standards Development Process, the reduced volume of code changes will be distributed between Groups A and B.Code change proposals submitted for code sections that have a letter designation in front of them will be heard by the respective committee responsible for such code sections. Because different committees hold Committee Action Hearings in different years, proposals for most codes will be heard by committees in both the 2024 (Group A) and the 2025 (Group B) code development cycles. It is very important that anyone submitting code change proposals understands which code development committee is responsible for the section of the code that is the subject of the code change proposal.Please visit the ICC website at iccsafe.org/products-and-services/i-codes/code-development/current-code-development-cycle for further information on the Code Development Committee responsibilities as it becomes available.
Coordination of the I-Codes
The coordination of technical provisions allows the I-Codes to be used as a complete set of complementary documents. Individual codes can also be used in subsets or as stand-alone documents. Some technical provisions that are relevant to more than one subject area are duplicated in multiple model codes.
Italicized Terms
Words and terms defined in Chapter 2, Definitions, are italicized where they appear in code text and the Chapter 2 definitions apply. Although care has been taken to ensure applicable terms are italicized, there may be instances where a defined term has not been italicized or where a term is italicized but the definition found in Chapter 2 is not applicable. For example, Chapter 2 of the International Building Code®(IBC®) contains a definition for “Listed” that is applicable to equipment, products and services. The term “listed” is also used in that code to refer to a list of items within the code or within a referenced document. For the latter, the Chapter 2 definition would not be applicable.
Adoption of International Code Council Codes and Standards
The International Code Council maintains a copyright in all of its codes and standards. Maintaining copyright allows the Code Council to fund its mission through sales of books in both print and digital formats. The Code Council welcomes incorporation by reference of its codes and standards by jurisdictions that recognize and acknowledge the Code Council’s copyright in the codes and standards, and further acknowledge the substantial shared value of the public/private partnership for code development between jurisdictions and the Code Council. By making its codes and standards available for incorporation by reference, the Code Council does not waive its copyright in its codes and standards.The Code Council’s codes and standards may only be adopted by incorporation by reference in an ordinance passed by the governing body of the jurisdiction. “Incorporation by reference” means that in the adopting ordinance, the governing body cites only the title, edition, relevant sections or subsections (where applicable), and publishing information of the model code or standard, and the actual text of the model code or standard is not included in the ordinance (see graphic, “Adoption of International Code Council Codes and Standards”). The Code Council does not consent to the reproduction of the text of its codes or standards in any ordinance. If the governing body enacts any changes, only the text of those changes or amendments may be included in the ordinance. The Code Council also recognizes the need for jurisdictions to make laws accessible to the public. Accordingly, all I-Codes and I-Standards, along with the laws of many jurisdictions, are available to view for free at codes.iccsafe.org/codes/i-codes. These documents may also be purchased, in both digital and print versions, at shop.iccsafe.org.To facilitate adoption, some I-Code sections contain blanks for fill-in information that needs to be supplied by the adopting jurisdiction as part of the adoption legislation. For example, the IPC contains:Section 101.1. Insert: [NAME OF JURISDICTION]Section 103.1. Insert: [NAME OF DEPARTMENT]Section 114.4. Insert: [OFFENSE, DOLLAR AMOUNT, NUMBER OF DAYS]Section 305.4.1. Insert: [NUMBER OF INCHES IN TWO LOCATIONS]Section 903.1.1. Insert:  [NUMBER OF INCHES]For further information or assistance with adoption, including a sample ordinance, jurisdictions should contact the Code Council at incorporation@iccsafe.org.For a list of frequently asked questions (FAQs) addressing a range of foundational topics about the adoption of model codes by jurisdictions and to learn more about the Code Council’s code adoption resources, scan the QR code or visit iccsafe.org/code-adoption-resources.
INTRODUCTION TO THE INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE The IPC is a model code that regulates the design and installation of plumbing systems including the plumbing fixtures in all types of buildings except for detached one- and two-family dwellings and townhouses that are not more than three stories above grade in height. The regulations for plumbing systems in one- and two-family dwellings and townhouses are covered by Chapters 25 through 33 of the International Residential Code®(IRC®). The IPC addresses general plumbing regulations, fixture requirements, water heater installations and systems for water distribution, sanitary drainage, special wastes, venting, storm drainage and medical gases. The IPC does not address fuel gas piping systems as those systems are covered by the International Fuel Gas Code®(IFGC®). The IPC also does not regulate swimming pool piping systems, process piping systems, or utility-owned piping and systems. The purpose of the IPC is to the establish the minimum acceptable level of safety to protect life and property from the potential dangers associated with supplying potable water to plumbing fixtures and outlets and the conveyance of bacteria-laden wastewater from fixtures.The IPC is primarily a specification-oriented (prescriptive) code with some performance-oriented text. For example, Section 405.1 is a performance statement but Chapter 6 contains the prescriptive requirements that will cause Section 405.1 to be satisfied. Where a building contains plumbing fixtures, those fixtures requiring water must be provided with an adequate supply of water for proper operation. The number of required plumbing fixtures for a building is specified by this code and is based on the anticipated maximum number of occupants for the building and the type of building occupancy. This code provides prescriptive criteria for sizing piping systems connected to those fixtures. Through the use of code-approved materials and the installation requirements specified in this code, plumbing systems will perform their intended function over the life of the building. In summary, the IPC sets forth the minimum requirements for providing safe water to a building as well as a safe manner in which liquidborne wastes are carried away from a building.
ARRANGEMENT AND FORMAT OF THE 2024 IPC The format of the IPC allows each chapter to be devoted to a particular subject with the exception of Chapter 3, which contains general subject matters that are not extensive enough to warrant their own independent chapter.The following table shows how the IPC is divided. The subsequent table shows IPC requirements that are correlated with other I-Codes. The chapter synopses detail the scope and intent of the provisions of the IPC.
CHAPTER TOPICS
CHAPTERS
SUBJECTS
1, 2 Administration and Definitions
3 General Regulations
4 Fixtures, Faucets and Fixture Fittings
5 Water Heaters
6 Water Supply and Distribution
7 Sanitary Drainage
8 Indirect/Special Waste
9 Vents
10 Traps, Interceptors and Separators
11 Storm Drainage
12 Special Piping (Medical Gas)
13 Nonpotable Water Systems
14 Subsurface Graywater Soil Absorption
15 Referenced Standards
Appendices A–F Appendices
Resource A Plumbing Provisions Excerpted from ICC A117.1–2017 with Supplement 1
International Building Code Correlated Topics
The IPC requirements for plumbing fixtures and toilet rooms are directly correlated with the requirements of the IBC. The following table shows chapters/sections of the IPC that are correlated with the IBC:
IPC/IBC CORRELATED TOPICS
IPC CHAPTER/SECTION
IBC CHAPTER/SECTION
SUBJECT
Chapters 3, 4
Chapter 29
Plumbing fixtures and facilities
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration.
Chapter 1 establishes the limits of applicability of the code and describes how the code is to be applied and enforced. The provisions of Chapter 1 establish the authority and duties of the code official appointed by the authority having jurisdiction and also establish the rights and privileges of the design professional, contractor and property owner.​
Chapter 2 Definitions.
Chapter 2 is the repository of the definitions of terms used in the body of the code.The user of the code should be familiar with and consult this chapter because the definitions are essential to the correct interpretation of the code and because the user may not be aware that a term is defined.
Chapter 3 General Regulations.
The content of Chapter 3 is often referred to as “miscellaneous,” rather than general regulations. Chapter 3 contains safety requirements for the installation of all types of plumbing and nonplumbing fixtures.
Chapter 4 Fixtures, Faucets and Fixture Fittings.
Chapter 3 contains safety requirements for the installation of all types of plumbing and nonplumbing fixtures.
Chapter 5 Water Heaters.
Chapter 5 regulates the design, approval and installation of water heaters and related safety devices. The intent is to minimize the hazards associated with the installation and operation of water heaters.
Chapter 6 Water Supply and Distribution.
Chapter 6 regulates the supply of potable water from both public and individual sources to every fixture and outlet so that it remains potable. Chapter 6 also regulates the design of the water distribution system, which will allow fixtures to function properly and help prevent backflow conditions.
Chapter 7 Sanitary Drainage.
The purpose of Chapter 7 is to regulate the materials, design and installation of sanitary drainage piping systems and connections made to the system. The intent is to design and install sanitary drainage systems that will function reliably, that are neither undersized nor oversized and that are constructed from materials, fittings and connections as prescribed herein.
Chapter 8 Indirect/Special Waste.
Chapter 8 regulates drainage installations that require an indirect connection to the sanitary drainage system. Fixtures and plumbing appliances, such as those associated with food preparation or handling, health care facilities and potable liquids, must beprotected from contamination that can result from connection to the drainage system.
Chapter 9 Vents.
Chapter 9 covers the requirements for vents and venting. Venting protects every trap against the loss of its seal.
Chapter 10 Traps, Interceptors and Separators.
Chapter 10 contains design requirements and installation limitations for traps. Requirements for the design and location of various types of interceptors and separators are provided.
Chapter 11 Storm Drainage.
Chapter 11 regulates the removal of storm water. The proper installation of a storm drainage system reduces the possibility of structural collapse of a flat roof and prevents damage to the footings and foundation of the building.
Chapter 12 Special Piping and Storage Systems.
Chapter 12 contains the requirements for the design, installation, storage, handling and use of nonflammable medical gas systems, including inhalation anesthetic and vacuum piping systems, bulk oxygen storage systems and oxygen-fuel gas systems used for welding and cutting operations.
Chapter 13 Nonpotable Water Systems.
Chapter 13 regulates the design and installation of nonpotable water systems, including rainwater harvesting systems. The need for a reduction of potable water use in buildings has led building designers to utilize nonpotable water in building applications.
Chapter 14 Subsurface Graywater Soil Absorption Systems.
Chapter 14 regulates the design and installation of subsurface graywater soil absorption systems for the disposal of on-site nonpotable water such as graywater. The reduction of potable water use in buildings has led building designers in some jurisdictions to use on-site nonpotable water in building applications such as landscape irrigation.
Chapter 15 Referenced Standards.
Chapter 15 lists all of the product and installation standards and codes that are referenced throughout Chapters 1 through 14 and includes identification of the promulgators and the section numbers in which the standards and codes are referenced. As stated in Section 102.8, these standards and codes become an enforceable part of the code (to the prescribed extent of the reference) as if printed in the body of the code.
Appendix A Plumbing Permit Fee Schedule.
Appendix A provides a format for a fee schedule.
Appendix B Rates of Rainfall for Various Cities.
Appendix B provides specific rainfall rates for major cities in the United States.
Appendix C Structural Safety.
Appendix C is provided to direct the user to a registered design professional for the cutting, notching and boring of structural steel members.
Appendix D Degree Day and Design Temperatures.
Appendix D provides valuable temperature information for designers and installers of plumbing systems in areas where freezing temperatures might exist.
Appendix E Sizing of Water Piping System.
Appendix E provides two recognized methods for sizing the water service and water distribution piping for any structure.
Appendix F Board of Appeals.
Appendix F contains the provisions for appeal and the establishment of a board of appeals. The provisions include the application for an appeal, the makeup of the board of appeals and the conduct of the appeal process.
Resource A Plumbing Provisions Excerpted from ICC A117.1–2017 with Supplement 1, Standard for Accessible and Usable Buildings and Facilities.
Building accessibility is a fundamental tenet in the International Codes. The codes rely on the provisions contained in ICC A117.1 for the design and construction of accessible buildings. Accessible plumbing facilities and fixtures play a key role in making sure that all aspects of the building provide the requisite level of accessibility. ICC A117.1 is referenced in Sections 404.2 and 410.3.
RELOCATION OF TEXT OR TABLES The following table indicates relocation of sections and tables in the 2024 edition of the IPC from the 2021 edition.
RELOCATIONS
2024 LOCATION
2021 LOCATION
104 105
104.2.3 105.1
104.2.3.6 105.2.1
104.2.2 105.3
104.2.4 105.3.1
104.2.2.4 105.3.2
104.2.3.5 105.3.2
104.7.4 105.3.3
104.9 105.4
104.9.1 105.4.1
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
I-Codes • 2024
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.