======================================================================
Chapter 10 Construction and Plans for Operation
======================================================================

Chapter 9 Materials And Resources - Green Building Code of Pakistan with Commentary
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2023
Green Building Code of Pakistan with Commentary
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2023 Green Building Code of Pakistan with Commentary 2021 Building Code of Pakistan 2024 International Energy Conservation Code and ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1-2022 (IECC) 2024 International Green Construction Code Code (IgCC) 2024 International Zoning Code (IZC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
Pakistan
/
2023 Green Building Code of Pakistan with Commentary
Chapter 9 Materials and Resources
2023 Green Building Code of Pakistan with Commentary
favorite_border
2021 IGCC
Amended
Version:
Dec 2024
Contents
Notes
Overview
Copyright
Preface
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Chapter 2 Reserved
Chapter 3 Definitions, Abbreviations and Acronyms
Chapter 4 Reserved
Chapter 5 Site Sustainability
Chapter 6 Water Use Efficiency
Chapter 7 Energy Efficiency
Chapter 8 Indoor Environmental Quality (Ieq)
Chapter 9 Materials and Resources
901.1 (9.1) Scope.
901.2 (9.2) Compliance.
901.3 (9.3) Mandatory Provisions.
901.4 (9.4) Prescriptive Option.
901.5 (9.5) Performance Option.
Chapter 10 Construction and Plans for Operation
Informative Appendix a Normative References
Informative Appendix B Prescriptive Equipment Efficiency Tables for the Alternate Reduced Renewables and Increased Equipment Efficiency Approach in Section 701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1)
Informative Appendix C Performance Option for Energy Efficiency
Informative Appendix D Building Concentrations
Informative Appendix E Building Envelope Tables
Informative Appendix F Integrated Design
Informative Appendix G Informative References
Informative Appendix H Option for Energy Efficiency Using the IECC Prescriptive Compliance Path
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
CHAPTER
9 MATERIALS AND RESOURCESGeneral CommentsChapter 9 addresses the human health and environmental impacts of materials.Section 901.2 requires that buildings comply with the mandatory provisions of Section 901.3 and either the prescriptivebased provisions of Section 901.4 or the performance-based provisions of Section 901.5.Section 901.3 contains mandatory provisions related to the human health and environmental impacts of materials. It includes requirements for construction waste management; the extracting, harvesting, and manufacturing of materials; refrigerants; the storage and collection of recyclables and discarded goods; and the mercury content levels of lamps.Section 901.4 contains prescriptive-based requirements related to the human health and environmental impacts of materials. It includes provisions for recycled and salvaged material content, regional materials, biobased products and multiple-attribute product declaration/ certification.Section 901.5 contains performance-based requirements related to the health and environmental impacts of materials. It includes provisions for life-cycle assessment that address performance metrics, procedures and reporting.PurposeThe intent of this chapter is to reduce environmental and human health impacts of materials, including resource conservation, reduced life-cycle impacts of building materials, impacts on the atmosphere, product transparency, and waste management.
901.1 (9.1)
Scope.This section specifies requirements related to the environmental and human health impacts of materials, including resource conservation, reduced life-cycle impacts of building materials, impacts on the atmosphere, product transparency, and waste management.From the origin of material components to the end of a product’s useful life, building material choices can have widespread impacts on the atmosphere and natural resources. The activities associated with product choices may contribute to pollution, habitat destruction, natural resource depletion, and the unnecessary growth of landfills. The design of a high-performance green building must address these impacts in addition to the functional and economic implications of material selection. Successful implementation of the green building measures in this section can significantly reduce the impacts that buildings have on human health, air and water quality, land use, climate change, and ozone depletion. Emissions from specific construction materials are addressed in Sections 801.4.2 and 801.5.2 (§§ 8.4.2 and 8.5.2).
901.2 (9.2)
Compliance.The building materials shall comply with Section 901.3 (9.3), “Mandatory Provisions,” and either:a.Section 901.4 (9.4), “Prescriptive Option,” orb.Section 901.5 (9.5), “Performance Option.”The GBCP-2023 includes mandatory requirements. To demonstrate compliance with this section, projects must meet all mandatory requirements, as well as either the prescriptive or performance requirements. The prescriptive path provides specific measures that must be met to demonstrate compliance, and the performance path provides a more complex approach to measure performance against a relevant baseline. Figure 9-A provides a graphical representation of the various compliance requirements for Chapter 9.
901.3 (9.3)
Mandatory provisions.Compliance with the mandatory provisions of the GBCP-2023 is required for all projects. These mandatory provisions ensure that projects incorporate critical measures to reduce building impacts on the atmosphere, land use, and natural resources.Figure 9-A Compliance path.
901.3.1 (9.3.1)
Construction and demolition waste management.Landfills are burdened with waste generated from construction sites and other industrial or consumer-related sources, many of which are attributed to the construction and ongoing operations of buildings. Building-related construction and demolition has been increasing annually all over the world. This waste and the manner in which it is processed has direct impacts associated with land use and air and water quality. The GBCP-2023 contains specific recycling and reuse provisions designed to minimize waste from building projects and to maximize diversion of this waste from the landfill.
901.3.1.1 (9.3.1.1)
Diversion.A minimum of 25% of nonhazardous construction, demolition, or deconstruction waste material shall be diverted from disposal in landfills and incinerators through reuse, recycling, repurposing, and/or composting. Excavated soil and land-clearing debris shall not be included in the calculation. Alternative daily cover and waste-to-energy incineration shall not be included as diverted material. All diversion calculations shall be based on weight throughout the construction process.Diverting construction waste from landfills is an important green building best practice that may be accomplished through the implementation of an effective construction and demolition waste management plan.The first step in materials management is to prevent waste through reduction, reuse and recycling. Increasingly, the embodied environmental impacts of materials are becoming common knowledge in the construction and waste management sectors, and more value is being placed on building reuse and prioritizing deconstruction and salvage over demolition. Therefore, project teams should consider strategies that prevent waste, such as reusing buildings or building components and implementing deconstruction techniques instead of demolition for renovation scopes of work. Deconstruction can preserve materials for reuse and recycling in the initial stages of the waste stream, which directly results in greater waste reduction and diversion than commingled demolition debris. Demolition waste must be sorted offsite, with lower diversion rates than a building that has been deconstructed or has had building components salvaged for reuse. Reuse often involves more upfront labor and time to selectively deconstruct valuable materials as compared to demolition, but often those costs can be recouped through the materials salvaged for sale or donation.To maximize the overall waste diversion rate for a project, receiving entities for nonhazardous waste streams (e.g., glass, wood, steel, aluminum, concrete, organics, etc.) should be identified prior to the start of construction. Common receiving entities for construction waste materials may include, but are not limited to, local recycling, sorting or composting facilities, local salvage yards, or other organizations that intend to reuse these materials for another purpose. Examples of such organizations include charitable foundations, local construction projects accepting donations of used materials, or even collection and reuse programs organized by local governments.In addition, some product manufacturers and distributors will collect and reuse material packaging once a product has been delivered to a site. Examples of packaging materials that are commonly reclaimed include wood pallets, steel or plastic drums, cardboard boxes, and furniture packaging. Project teams may also request that manufacturers or distributors use reusable materials to protect goods during transportation. For example, some furniture manufacturers and distributors will blanket wrap furniture upon request instead of using cardboard and/or polystyrene foam for packaging to transport goods safely.To demonstrate compliance with this section, projects must document that at least 25 percent of the total amount, calculated by weight, of nonhazardous construction, deconstruction, or demolition debris generated by the project is diverted from landfills and incinerators through recycling reuse, repurposing, and/or composting practices. Excavated soil or landclearing debris are excluded from the calculation. Alternative daily cover, waste-to-energy, and incineration are not allowed to be counted as diverted material. The GBCP-2023 waste diversion calculator can be used to track and report progress through design and construction (see the bottom of this section for more on the calculator).Project teams are required to develop a construction and demolition waste management plan, and make it available to the owner and AHJ, prior to obtaining a building permit, a demolition permit, or beginning any deconstruction. This planning early in the project development phase helps to ensure that the intended recycling services are available, and the required space will be allocated. For instance, when a service provider accepts commingled waste (mixed waste that is not separated prior to pick-up, also known as “single-stream recycling”) less on-site space is required to separate these items. Also, facilities that accept commingled construction and demolition waste generally have records of average diversion rates. These are required to be provided in the waste management plan. Separate percentages are required for diversion of alternative daily cover (ADC) and waste-to-energy and/or incineration because those are not allowed to be included as waste diversion by this section of the GBCP-2023.Alternative daily cover refers to the cover material, other than earthen material, that is spread on top of an active face of a landfill at the end of each workday. This layer of material helps limit insects or disease-causing organisms (vectors), fires, odors, windborne litter, and scavenging. The small “fines” and low-value construction/demolition waste byproducts of construction and demolition processing facilities are often used as ADC but are not allowed to be counted as recycled or diverted material by the GBCP-2023. By definition, ADC materials are deposited and stay in a landfill; as such, they do not reenter materials cycles as recycled content and are not considered waste diversion or recycling in the GBCP-2023. Recycling facilities that only collect and recycle single materials (like scrap metal, drywall, wood, carpet, etc.) tend to not generate ADC. Typically, a commingled recycling facility will generate ADC as a byproduct of the sorting process. Ask commingled facilities to report the average ADC amount that is produced by the facility and use that number in tracking and reporting. Note that ADC rates at commingled facilities can range from zero to 50% or more, depending on the complexity of the recycling facility and local conditions. Some facilities may not disclose their ADC rates. If acquiring the ADC value is not possible, projects can use an estimated average ADC value acceptable to the AHJ.Materials to be reused, repurposed, or composted also need to be declared and their recipients identified in the construction and demolition waste management plan. Diversion from landfill includes repurposing as well as reuse. Reuse is using an object again for the same purpose.As indicated by Section 1001.3.1.2 (§ 10.3.1.10.2), a final construction waste management report must be submitted to the authority having jurisdiction (AHJ), when requested, before the final certificate of occupancy is issued.
901.3.1.2 (9.3.1.2)
[JO] Total waste.For new construction only, the total amount of construction waste generated prior to the issuance of the final certificate of occupancy on the project shall not exceed 20 lbs per ft2 (100 kg per m2) of new building floor area. This shall apply to all waste, whether diverted, landfilled, incinerated, or otherwise disposed of. Excavated soil, landclearing debris, and demolition debris shall not be included in the calculation. The amount of waste shall be tracked throughout the construction process in accordance with the construction waste management plan required in Section 901.3.1.3 (9.3.1.3).Exception: Projects where the waste diversion in accordance with Section 901.3.1.1 (9.3.1.1) is 50% or greater.In addition to the 25 percent waste diversion requirement, there is a separate requirement for minimizing the total amount of waste generated on a project site. This requirement applies to new construction activities only (i.e., ground-up new construction projects, or new additions to an existing building). If the project includes existing buildings or structures, this requirement does not apply to those existing elements.For new construction activities, the total construction waste generated by the project cannot exceed 20 lbs per ft2 (100 kg per m2) of new building floor area. Total construction waste refers to the net waste generated at the site by the project, including all diverted, landfilled, incinerated, or other disposed waste that occurs as a result of the new construction activities only. Consistent with Section 901.3.1.1 (§ 9.3.1.1), excavated soil, land-clearing debris, and demolition debris are excluded from the total waste calculation.Projects that demonstrate exemplary performance in waste diversion (where the waste diversion in accordance with Section 901.3.1.1 (§ 9.3.1.1) is 50% or greater) are exempted from the Total Waste provision of Section 901.3.1.2 (§ 9.3.1.2).
901.3.1.3 (9.3.1.3)
Construction and demolition waste management plan.Prior to the start of any construction, demolition, or deconstruction, a construction and demolition waste management plan shall be prepared and made available to the owner and AHJ. The plan shall do the following:a.Identify the construction and demolition waste materials expected to be diverted.b.Identify materials or building elements to be deconstructed.c.Indicate whether construction and demolition waste materials are to be source-separated or comingled.d.Identify service providers and designate destination facilities for construction and demolition waste materials generated at the job site.e.Identify the average diversion rate for facilities that accept or process comingled construction and demolition materials. Separate average percentages shall be included for those materials collected by construction and demolition materials processing facilities that end up as alternative daily cover and incineration.f.Specify a method for tracking.g.Specify a reporting mechanism for disposition of waste using items (a) through (f).The requirements for the construction and demolition waste management plan, final construction waste management report, and tracking of waste throughout the construction process are described in Section 901.3.1.1 (§ 9.3.1.1) of this document.
901.3.2 (9.3.2)
Extracting, harvesting, and/or manufacturing. This section applies to all materials, products, and/or assemblies installed prior to the issuance of the final certificate of occupancy.Materials shall be harvested and/or extracted, and products and/or assemblies shall be manufactured, according to the laws and regulations of the country of origin.Wood products in the project, other than recovered or reused wood, shall not contain wood from endangered wood species unless the trade of such wood conforms with the requirements of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES).This section applies to all materials, products, and assemblies installed prior to the issuance of a final certificate of occupancy. Material extraction or harvesting refers to the process of extracting raw material from the Earth or harvesting raw material to make a product. Examples include the mining of aggregate (e.g., sand, gravel, or rock) to be used in the manufacturing of concrete or harvesting trees to make lumber. Manufacturing is the process of creating a building product. All materials, assemblies, and products installed in the building must be extracted, harvested, and/or manufactured according to the laws and regulations of their countries of origin. If the final assembly of a product occurs in Country A using materials extracted in Country B and assemblies manufactured in Country C, then the final product must comply with the laws and regulations of Country A, the materials must have been extracted in accordance with the laws of Country B, and the assemblies must have been manufactured in accordance with applicable laws and regulations in Country C.The reference to “endangered wood species” in paragraph three refers to species listed in Appendix I or II of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). CITES is an international system for the identification of endangered plant and animal species and the regulation of international trade in listed species. CITES allows trade in species listed in Appendix I in certain limited circumstances and with appropriate paperwork from both the country of origin (the exporting country) and the country of import (for example, the US). Trade in species in Appendix II requires paperwork only from the country of origin. It is important to note that listings may be limited to one or more specific countries and thus the same species found in other countries would not be subject to CITES. Compliance with CITES satisfies the intent of the second paragraph. Recovered or reused wood does not need to meet the requirements in paragraph three.
901.3.3 (9.3.3)
Refrigerants. [Reserved for future use.]
901.3.4 (9.3.4)
Areas for storage and collection of recyclables and discarded goods. Areas for recyclables and discarded goods shall be provided as described in this section. These areas shall be coordinated with the anticipated collection services to maximize the effectiveness of the dedicated areas. Instructions regarding the identification and handling of recyclables and discarded goods in these areas shall be posted in or adjacent to each dedicated area.Effective recycling or reuse areas shall be used to reduce the amount of waste sent to the landfill from buildings during their use (post occupancy). These shall include a dedicated storage area for recyclables or discarded goods. Well-designed collection areas for the temporary storage of nonhazardous recyclable materials are an important part of a building’s recycling program. Separate, dedicated recycling areas must be provided to serve the entire building. Designers should employ their knowledge of the functional use of the building and the available collection services to determine the appropriate size and layout of the designated collection and storage areas. Best practice might dictate more than one collection and storage area for a building. During early design and space planning meetings, it is recommended that the waste/recycling/composting haulers and/or the jurisdiction be involved in the sizing and design of the collection spaces and infrastructure for the buildings. The haulers and jurisdictions often have guidelines that can be used to maximize the effectiveness of storage areas. Topics to consider include adequate space for collection areas given the occupancy and operations of the building (e.g., service levels, bin sizes, materials collected, etc.); truck turnaround radius, truck clearances, and safe worker handling; and other logistics that make recycling and waste hauling as efficient as possible. For additional guidance on sizing collection and storage areas, refer to Table 9-A Additional resources, including an anticipated waste generation calculator can be found in the Zero Waste Design Guidelines published by New York’s Center for Architecture.Table 9-A Suggested Recycling Area GuidelinesCommercial Building, ft2(m2)Suggested Minimum Recycling Area, ft2(m2)0 to 5000 (0 to 465)82 (8)5001 to 15,000 (466 to 1394)125 (12)15,001 to 50,000 (1395 to 4645)175 (16)50,001 to 100,000 (4646 to 9290)225 (21)100,001 to 200,000 (9291 to 18,581)275 (26)200,001 or greater (18,582 or greater)500 (46)While not required by the GBCP-2023, it is recommended that the designers work with the property owners to establish a functional recycling program that will continue after occupancy. Some haulers accept single-stream recycling, which means most if not all recyclables are placed into one bin. Other haulers require waste materials to be separated on site. Depending on the hauler’s requirements, collection and storage can take place in multiple bins (on-site separation) or in one bin (single-stream). Instructions, generally in the form of signs, regarding the identification and handling of recyclables must be posted in or near each dedicated storage area. Consider multiple languages and signs that include pictures or icons for greatest impact.
901.3.4.1 (9.3.4.1)
Recyclables. There shall be areas that serve the entire building and are dedicated to the collection and storage of nonhazardous materials for recycling, including paper, corrugated cardboard, glass, plastics, and metals.To fulfill the requirements of Section 901.3.4.1 (§ 9.3.4.1), projects must demonstrate that they are capable of collecting and storing the following recyclable materials: paper, corrugated cardboard, glass, plastic, and metals. These are the most commonly recycled materials nationally, though local markets may warrant additional recycling streams, including organics for composting or other recyclable materials.
901.3.4.2 (9.3.4.2)
Reusable goods. For building projects with residential spaces, there shall be an area that serves the entire building and is designed for the collection and storage of discarded but clean items in good condition. Charitable organizations or others to arrange for periodic pickups shall be identified and posted.Reuse is an important practice that prevents useful items from being unnecessarily sent to landfills or waste incinerators. Since building occupants have a significant impact on waste streams, this section requires that buildings with residential spaces provide a designated area for the collection and storage of clean discarded items that are in good condition. These items may be collected or donated to organizations that may reuse or repurpose them to extend their useful lives. A sign must be posted in the collection area indicating the organization that will be picking up goods and the frequency of pickup based on property management scheduling.
901.3.4.3 (9.3.4.3)
Fluorescent and high-intensity discharge (hid) lamps and ballasts. An area shall be provided that serves the entire building, is designed for the collection and storage of fluorescent and HID lamps and ballasts, and facilitates proper disposal and/or recycling according to jurisdictional hazardous waste requirements.Mercury can be harmful to humans and other species and is commonly used in some consumer products, including fluorescent and high-intensity discharge (HID) lamps. If these products are not properly handled or disposed of, the mercury contained in them may be released to the environment. More information about mercury can be found on the USEPA’s website, https://www.epa.gov/mercury.To ensure that fluorescent and HID lamps and ballasts (which should also be recycled) are handled and disposed of appropriately, this section requires that a designated area be provided for their collection and storage. Building occupants with access to this storage area should be educated on the proper handling and disposal of lamps and/or other mercurycontaining products to prevent breakage. Recommendations on how to handle lamps to be discarded should be posted. Information regarding proper handling and disposal can also be found on USEPA’s mercury website.Many states have mandatory disposal laws in place, and many more local jurisdictions require special handling and disposal of these products. Building owners are encouraged to contact state or local jurisdictional agencies for more information on the safe handling and disposal of mercury-containing consumer products.
901.3.4.4 (9.3.4.4)
Electronics and batteries. Separate containers or areas shall be provided that serve the entire building; are designed for the collection and storage of electronics, alkaline batteries, and rechargeable batteries; and facilitate disposal and/or recycling according to jurisdictional requirements.Electronics and batteries have varying amounts of toxic chemicals that can leach into the soil and water supplies. Electronics can often be reused or repurposed or they can frequently be broken down by third-party recyclers and their metal and other valuable materials recycled. Many jurisdictions prohibit disposal of electronics and batteries in landfills.Electronics, according to the definition in the GBCP-2023, cover a wide range of items from computers to paper shredders. Electronics include computer accessories, such as cables, storage drives, and just about anything that can be plugged into or inserted into a computer. Also included in electronics are monitors, TVs, screens, scanners, fax machines, postage machines, media players, and radios. Other electronics not included in the definition in the code can also be recycled. These include just about anything that uses power, for example toasters and coffee brewers.The GBCP-2023 requires that separate containers or storage areas be provided in the building for discarded electronics, alkaline batteries, and rechargeable batteries. The eventual disposition of these items can be either disposal or recycling, depending on jurisdictional requirements. However, recycling is preferred if the infrastructure is available.
901.3.5 (9.3.5)
Mercury content levels of lamps. Electric lamps used in the building project shall not contain mercury in an amount exceeding, per lamp, the maximum mercury content levels of Table 901.3.5 (9.3.5).Exceptions:1.Eight-foot models of straight fluorescent T8 lamps.2.High-output and very-high-output, straight fluorescent lamps greater than 1.25 in. (32 mm) in diameter.3.Mogul bi-pin-based lamps.4.Preheat straight fluorescent lamps of any size.5.U-bend and circline fluorescent lamps.6.HID lamps.7.Induction lamps.8.Special-purpose lamps: appliance, black light, germicidal, bug, colored, grow, straight fluorescent reflector, reprographic, shatter resistant, cold temperature, and three-way lamps.
TABLE 901.3.5 (TABLE 9.3.5)
MAXIMUM MERCURY CONTENT FOR ELECTRIC LAMPS
LAMP MAXIMUM MERCURY CONTENT
Screw-base compact fluorescent lamps < 25 W 4 mg
Screw-base compact fluorescent lamps ≥ 25 W and < 40 W 5 mg
Pin-base compact fluorescent lamps, all wattages 5 mg
Straight fluorescent T5 normal lifetime lamps a 3 mg
Straight fluorescent T8 normal lifetime lamps a 4 mg
Straight fluorescent T5 and T8 long lifetime lamps b 5 mg
T12 eight-foot straight fluorescent lamps 15 mg
a.Electric lamps with a rated lifetime less than 25,000 h when tested on an electronic fluorescent ballast, including T8 instant-start ballasts and T5 programmed-start ballasts, and turned off and on every three hours.b.Electric lamps with a rated lifetime equal to or greater than 25,000 hours when tested on an electronic fluorescent ballast, including T8 instant-start ballasts and T5 programmed-start ballasts, and turned off and on every three hours.Table 901.3.5 (Table 9.3.5) of the GBCP-2023 provides restrictions on the amount of mercury contained in certain fluorescent lamps. The mercury content levels specified in the GBCP-2023 are consistent with these laws. A list of exceptions indicates types of lamps that do not have to comply with the requirements in the table. These include some fluorescent lamps, HID lamps, induction lamps, and many special-purpose lamps.
901.4 (9.4)
Prescriptive option.The prescriptive compliance path addresses four readily quantifiable attributes of materials used in the construction of the building: recycled content and salvaged material content, Section 901.4.1.1 (§ 9.4.1.1); regional materials, Section 901.4.1.2 (§ 9.4.1.2); biobased products, Section 901.4.1.3 (§ 9.4.1.3); and/or multiple-attribute product declaration or certification, Section 901.4.1.4 (§ 9.4.1.4), which includes sub-components for industry-wide environmental product declarations (EPDs), product-specific EPDs, third-party multiple-attribute standard certifications, and product life-cycle assessments. The building project needs to comply with two of these four paths, [Sections 901.4.1.1 (§ 9.4.1.1) through 901.4.1.4 (§ 9.4.1.4)].The minimum thresholds for recycled, regional and biobased materials are calculated on a cost basis relative to the overall cost of the permanently installed materials in the building. In order to simplify the calculation process, a value equivalent to 45 percent of the overall project cost can be used as an estimate of the total cost of project materials. The GBCP-2023 does not restrict the components that can be included to achieve compliance in the prescriptive section. Components of mechanical, electrical, plumbing, and fire safety systems and transportation devices can be included when determining compliance.
901.4.1 (9.4.1)
Reduced impact materials.The building project shall comply with any two of the following: Sections 901.4.1.1, 901.4.1.2, 901.4.1.3, or 901.4.1.4 (9.4.1.1, 9.4.1.2, 9.4.1.3, or 9.4.1.4). Calculations shall only include materials permanently installed in the project. A value of 45% of the total construction cost shall be permitted to be used in lieu of the actual total cost of materials. The prescriptive compliance path addresses four readily quantifiable attributes of materials used in the construction of the building: recycled content and salvaged material content, Section 901.4.1.1 (§ 9.4.1.1); regional materials, Section 901.4.1.2 (§ 9.4.1.2); biobased products, Section 901.4.1.3 (§ 9.4.1.3); and/or multiple-attribute product declaration or certification,
Section 901.4.1.4 (§ 9.4.1.4); which includes sub-components for industry-wide environmental product declarations (EPDs), product-specific EPDs, third-party multiple-attribute standard certifications, and product life-cycle assessments. The building project needs to comply with two of these four paths, [Sections 901.4.1.1 (§ 9.4.1.1) through 901.4.1.4 (§ 9.4.1.4)]. The minimum thresholds for recycled, regional and biobased materials are calculated on a cost basis relative to the overall cost of the permanently installed materials in the building. In order to simplify the calculation process, a value equivalent to 45 percent of the overall project cost can be used as an estimate of the total cost of project materials.The GBCP-2023 does not restrict the components that can be included to achieve compliance in the prescriptive section. Components of mechanical, electrical, plumbing, and fire safety systems and transportation devices can be included when determining compliance.
901.4.1.1 (9.4.1.1)
Recycled content and salvaged material content.The sum of the recycled content and the salvaged material content shall constitute a minimum of 10%, based on cost, of the total materials in the building project.The first option for satisfying the prescriptive requirements of Chapter 9 is for the building to meet or exceed a recycled content plus salvaged material content value of 10 percent based on cost for the materials used in the project.
901.4.1.1.1 (9.4.1.1.1)
Recycled content.The recycled content of a material shall be the postconsumer recycled content plus one-half of the preconsumer recycled content, determined by weight (mass). The recycled fraction of the material in a product or an assembly shall then be multiplied by the cost of the product or assembly to determine its contribution to the 10% requirement. The annual average industry values, by country of production, for the recycled content of steel products manufactured in basic oxygen furnaces and electric arc furnaces shall be permitted to be used as the recycled content of the steel. For the purpose of calculating the recycled content contribution of concrete, the constituent materials in concrete (Informative Note: e.g., the cementitious materials, aggregates, and water) shall be permitted to be treated as separate components and calculated separately. The recycled content of each material used in the project is to be determined on the basis of weight, either directly or as a portion of an assembly or product. For the purposes of the GBCP-2023, a material’s recycled content is calculated as the amount of postconsumer recycled content (by weight) plus one half of the amount of preconsumer recycled content (by weight) divided by the total weight of the material. In the context of the code, the words “weight” and “mass” are interchangeable and have the same meaning. The GBCP-2023’s recycled content calculator can be used to determine the amount of recycled content used in a project. This calculator has been adapted from the USGBC 2009 LEED Reference Guide for Green Building Design and Construction recycled content calculator.The code uses definitions for recycled content, recycled material, postconsumer recycled content, preconsumer recycled content, and recovered material that are consistent with ISO 14021, Environmental Labels and Declarations—Self-Declared Environmental Claims (Type II Environmental Labeling). Postconsumer recycled content refers to materials generated by households or commercial, industrial, or institutional facilities that have been recovered after the use phase (i.e., can no longer be used for their intended purposes). For example, some carpet products consist of backing made from recycled plastic bottles. Preconsumer recycled content, on the other hand, consists of waste material resulting from a manufacturing or industrial process that was used to create a new material or product. An example of this would be steel scrap from the auto manufacturing process returned to a steel mill for recycling into new steel products.When a material’s recycled content percentage is determined, that percentage is multiplied by the cost of the material delivered to the building site (this includes all taxes and expenses, including fabrication and overhead, incurred by the contractor for delivering the materials to the project site, but excludes labor and any equipment used to install the product after it is delivered to the site) to determine the recycled content contribution of that material in dollars. The sum of the recycled content contribution for all materials used in the project is then divided by the total cost of applicable materials and products permanently installed on the project (or a factor of 45 percent of the overall project cost) to determine the overall percentage of recycled content used in the project.The recycled content contribution of concrete can be calculated either as a whole or based on the constituent components of the concrete. For example, the recycled content contribution of ready-mix concrete delivered to a project site can be calculated as the cost of the concrete multiplied by the percentage of weight represented by postconsumer recycled content and one-half of the preconsumer recycled content of the entire ready-mix material. Alternatively, the concrete can be treated separately as cementitious material, aggregate, and water. In this case, the recycled content value of the cementitious material would be multiplied by the cost of the cementitious material to determine its contribution to the overall recycled value of materials in the building. Supplementary cementitious materials, such as a fly ash, slag cement, and silica fume are recovered from other industrial processes. When used as a replacement for a portion of the cement in concrete, these supplementary cementitious materials can significantly reduce the environmental impact of concrete. Although cement makes up only 7 to 15 percent of the material in concrete by weight, it is a fired material with more environmental impacts than sand, gravel, or water. Fly ash is commonly used at replacement levels up to 25 percent, slag cement up to 60 percent, and silica fume up to 7 percent. When these replacement materials are used, the proportioned mixture (using the project materials) should be tested to demonstrate that it meets the required concrete properties for the project.Aggregate would be calculated on a similar basis. Aggregate can be produced by grinding concrete demolition waste from old buildings, roadways, or parking lots.Recycled Content FormulaRecycled Content Value = (% postconsumer recycled content × material cost) + 0.5 × (% preconsumer recycled content × material cost)The requirement is met if the sum of the recycled content value divided by the total cost of materials is greater than or equal to 10 percent.It is recommended that documentation of recycled content include an invoice, letter, or description from the product manufacturer indicating the recycled content. This requirement may also be met using the annual average industry values for steel products manufactured in either basic oxygen furnaces or electric arc furnaces, depending on the source of the product being used in the particular project. This requirement is met for concrete products with documentation of the mix designs indicating the proportion or quantity of recycled content of the cementitious materials (e.g., fly ash or slag cement) and other constituent materials and the quantity of delivered concrete with that mix design. Note: For products and materials where the type of recycled content is not indicated in manufacturer literature or other sources, the conservative assumption is that the recycled content is derived from preconsumer materials.
901.4.1.1.2 (9.4.1.1.2)
Salvaged material content.The salvaged material content shall be determined based on the actual cost of the salvaged material or the cost of a comparable alternative component material.The calculation for Section 901.4.1.1 (§ 9.4.1.1) is allowed to include salvaged material content as well as recycled content. A salvaged material is a material, component, or assembly that is removed from a structure or site where it was previously installed and in service and then reused in the building project. Deconstruction strategies are used to salvage high-value materials that are able to be selectively removed from a building project or site prior to demolition. An example is an old beam that is reused in the building project, but it cannot be overstock from a manufacturing process. Project examples for reused structural steel elements can be found at the American Institute of Steel Construction website.The salvaged material content is the cost of the salvaged materials used in the building project. Sometimes the cost of salvaged materials can be challenging to determine. When the salvaged material is purchased, the actual cost can be used to determine compliance with the GBCP-2023. In the event this cost is low as compared to similar items on the market, or the salvaged material was not purchased but received by some other means such as a donation or from another building project, then the cost of a comparable alternative new component can be used. For example, if a door is reused from a previous building project and was obtained at a bargain price from a building that was going to be demolished, the cost of a similar door in the same condition can be used. If, however, a material is reused in another form than its original use, the cost for the material it is replacing can be used. For example, a door used as a wall covering can count as a wallcovering cost. Good examples of reuse strategies can be found in Design for Reuse Primer.
901.4.1.2 (9.4.1.2)
Regional materials.A minimum of 10% of building materials or products used, based on cost, shall be regionally extracted/harvested/recovered or manufactured within a radius of 250 mi (400 km) of the project site. If only a fraction of a product or material is extracted/harvested/recovered or manufactured locally, then only that percentage (by weight) shall contribute to the regional value. Exception: For building materials or products shipped in part by rail or water, the total distance to the project shall be determined by weighted average, whereby that portion of the distance shipped by rail or water shall be multiplied by 0.25 and added to that portion not shipped by rail or water, provided that the total does not exceed 250 mi (400 km).The second option to meet the prescriptive requirements of Chapter 9 of the GBCP-2023 requires that at least 10 percent of the project’s products or materials, based on cost, be harvested/extracted/recovered or manufactured within a 250-mile (400 km) radius of the project site.The distance traveled by the material or product from the point of harvest/extraction/recovery or manufacture to the project site must be less than 250 miles (400 km). The distance for materials shipped by water or rail is calculated at only 25 percent of the actual shipping distance by water or rail. The result is added to shipping distances by other than water or rail to determine compliance with the 250-mile (400 km) requirement.Materials are often transported by rail, truck, or ship from their place of harvest/extraction/recovery to a series of producers and manufacturers and then to the wholesaler and ultimately to the consumer. The environmental impacts associated with transportation are significant; therefore, this section encourages project teams to procure local materials. Locally sourced materials reduce the environmental impacts associated with transportation, including air pollutants and greenhouse gases, and stimulate local economies.The regional content contribution of a material or product is determined by that portion of its weight that was extracted/harvested/recovered or manufactured locally, multiplied by the material or product cost. Some green building rating systems require that the material be extracted/harvested/recovered and manufactured locally. This code allows more flexibility by allowing the material to have content that is locally extracted/harvested/recovered, content that is manufactured locally, or both. The sum of the regional content contribution of all applicable products and materials permanently installed on the project must equal or exceed 10 percent of the total cost of project materials. The project materials cost can be estimated as 45 percent of the total project cost.The regional content for product assemblies may be calculated by evaluating the individual product constituents. For example, assume that the wood used for a wood window frame was harvested within 500 miles (800 km) of the project site but the glass in the window was not. Because the glass is equal to 75 percent of the total weight of the assembly, we can conclude that 25 percent of the assembly weight multiplied by the cost of the window contributes to the regional content value of the project. However, if the final fabrication or assembly of the window occurred within 250 miles (400 km) of the project site, then 100 percent of the cost of the window would contribute to the regional content value. GBCP-2023’s regional content material calculator can be used to calculate the amount of regional content used in a project. This calculator has been adapted from the USGBC 2009 LEED Reference Guide for Green Building Design and Construction regional materials calculator.Transportation by rail and/or ship is typically more efficient and results in fewer environmental impacts than typical trucking methods for transporting materials. Therefore, for the purpose of determining compliance with this section, the distance from the location at which materials or products are extracted/harvested/recovered or manufactured to the project site, must be multiplied by 0.25 for that portion of the distance those materials are shipped by rail or water. If a product or material is shipped by a combination of transportation methods, then the mileage shipped by rail and water is multiplied by 0.25 and added to the distance shipped by truck or other means to determine the total effective qualifying distance for each material. The effective distance between the point of material extraction/harvest/recovery or manufacture must not exceed 250 miles (400 km) from the project site. The word “radius” used in Section 901.4.1.2 (§ 9.4.1.2) of the GBCP-2023 may be interpreted as distance in a direct line between the point of material extraction/harvest/recovery or manufacture and the project site.Regional Materials Content FormulaCombined distance calculation for each product or material:Distance by means other than rail or water + (Distance by rail or water × 0.25) ≤ 250 mi (400 km)The requirement is met if the sum of the regional product costs divided by the total cost of materials is greater than or equal to 10 percent.It is recommended that the documentation include an invoice, letter, or description from the product manufacturer indicating that the mass was extracted, harvested, recovered, or manufactured, within the specified distance.
901.4.1.3 (9.4.1.3)
Biobased products.A minimum of 2% of building materials used, based on cost, shall be biobased products. Biobased products shall:a.Comply with the minimum biobased contents of the USDA’s BioPreferred Program;b.Contain the “USDA Certified Biobased Product” label; orc.Be composed of solid wood, engineered wood, bamboo, wool, cotton, cork, agricultural fibers, or other biobased materials with at least 50% biobased content.The third option to fulfill the prescriptive requirements of Chapter 9 requires that 2 percent of the building materials, based on cost, be biobased. To calculate the percentage of biobased products used in a building project, the sum of all biobased material costs shall be divided by the total material cost for the project. The resulting percentage of biobased materials must be greater than or equal to 2 percent in order to demonstrate compliance with this section. An item may be considered a biobased product if it meets one of the following three criteria:•Complies with the minimum biobased contents of USDA’s BioPreferred Program. For more information about the program, visit USDA’s BioPreferred Program website.•Carries the “USDA Certified Biobased Product” label. For more information on how to locate products with the USDA Certified Biobased Product label, projects may refer to the catalog section of the USDA’s BioPreferred Program website.•Is composed in whole or in significant part of biological products or renewable agricultural materials, including but not limited to solid wood, engineered wood, bamboo, wool, cotton, cork, or agricultural fibers. In other words, for a product to qualify as a biobased material, the product must be composed of naturally occurring biological material that makes up at least 50 percent of the finished product by cost, volume, or weight.In addition, building products containing wood must also comply with the requirements of Section 901.4.1.3.1 (§ 9.4.1.3.1).
901.4.1.3.1 (9.4.1.3.1)
Wood building components.Wood building components, including but not limited to structural framing, sheathing, flooring, subflooring, wood window sash and frames, doors, and architectural millwork, used to comply with this requirement shall contain not less than 50% certified wood content tracked through a chain of custody process, either by physical separation or percentage-based approaches, or wood that qualifies as a salvaged material. Certified wood content documentation shall be provided by sources certified through a forest certification system with principles, criteria, and standards developed using ISO/IEC Guide 59 or the WTO Technical Barriers to Trade. Wood building components from a vendor shall be permitted to comply when the annual average amount of certified wood products purchased by the vendor, for which they have chain of custody verification not older than two years, is 50% or greater of their total annual wood products purchased. This section has specific provisions to ensure that the wood products used in buildings are sourced from sustainably managed forests and/or responsible forestry practices. Sustainable forestry describes forest policies, practices, and market mechanisms designed to enhance the ecological, economic, and social conditions of forest lands. Certified wood content documentation shall be provided by sources certified through a forest certification system with principles, criteria, and standards developed using ISO/IEC Guide 59 or the WTO Technical Barriers to Trade. Wood that meets the definition of salvaged material can also be included when complying with this section. The cost of the salvaged wood can be determined as described in Section 901.4.1.1.2 (§ 9.4.1.1.2).In accordance with sustainable forestry programs, chain of custody is an accounting process that tracks wood fiber through the different stages of production from harvesting to manufacture and to the end user. Product manufacturers or vendors document the percentage of their product that comes from certified forests. These claims can be made based on either the physical separation or percentage-based methods of tracking certified forest content and other responsible fiber sources.• Physical separation method. This method is used by companies to physically separate certified forest content fiber in order to make a 100 percent certified wood content claim. The physical separation method is the only way a company can make the claim that 100 percent of the fiber in a product came from a certified forest.• Volume credit method. This method is used when the company wants to sell a portion of its product under a claim of certification. If the company knows 50 percent of its supply comes from a certified forest, it can claim the same for 60 percent of its output. A company cannot market or claim more certified forest content than it has going into its facility. Because only a portion of the output has a claim, the use of this method must be communicated to the customer in a label, invoice, letter, or other document.• Average percentage method. This method is used when a company wants to label all of its output under a claim of certification. Because all of the output has a claim, the actual percentage from certified forests must be communicated to the customer in a label, invoice, letter, or other document.If a company uses either the volume credit method or the average percentage method, the minimum supply from certified forests must be at least 50 percent to qualify under Section 901.4.1.3.1 (§ 9.4.1.3.1) for credit toward the 5 percent compliance threshold for biobased products.In all three scenarios, the project shall maintain detailed documentation for each wood product confirming the material cost and documentation from the manufacturer or vendor confirming the chain-of-custody number and certified wood percentage. The total wood cost for a project shall include only permanently installed materials, including but not limited to structural framing, sheathing, flooring, subflooring, wood window sash and frames, doors, and architectural millwork.
901.4.1.4 (9.4.1.4)
Multiple-attribute product declaration or certification.A minimum of ten different products installed in the building project at the time of issuance of certificate of occupancy shall comply with one of the following subsections. Declarations, reports, and assessments shall be submitted to AHJ and shall contain documentation of the critical peer review by an independent third party, results from the review, the reviewer’s name, company name, contact information, and date of the review or certification.The fourth option to fulfill the prescriptive requirements of Chapter 9 of the GBCP-2023 requires that ten product credits be earned by different products installed in the building project to comply with Section 901.4.1.4 (§ 9.4.1.4). The sum of the number of products, counted singly or doubly, complying with Sections 901.4.1.4.1 (§ 9.4.1.4.1), 901.4.1.4.2 (§ 9.4.1.4.2), Sections 901.4.1.4.3 (§ 9.4.1.4.3) and 901.4.1.4.4 (§ 9.4.1.4.4) are used in determining whether the ten-product credit threshold of Section 901.4.1.4 (§ 9.4.1.4) is met. Industry average declarations earn one product credit while individual product declarations, third-party multiple-attribute certifications, and product life-cycle assessments earn two credits per product. GBCP-2023 publishes a multiple-attribute product declaration or certification calculator that has been adapted from LEED version 4 and is available online.Section 901.4.1.4 (§ 9.4.1.4) pertains to multiple-attribute declarations or certifications rather than to single-attribute compliance approaches. This section increases the range of products and materials that are considered under Section 901.4.1 (§ 9.4.1). Traditionally, a single-attribute approach (such as recycled content, regional materials, or biobased products) has been used to address the environmental requirements for materials in codes and sustainable rating systems. Frequently, these requirements can be met by simply considering the structural elements of a high-performance building. This is due to the inherent nature of construction projects, the cost of the materials, and the work by the wood, concrete, and steel industries to reduce their environmental impacts. While these are important goals to continue to strive for, the nonstructural materials (interior finishes, fixtures, and fitout) of a building have rarely been the focus of compliance with requirements for materials and resources due to their lower cost. Requiring at least two material attribute requirements to be met to comply with Section 901.1.4 (§ 9.1.4), including multiple-attribute product declaration or certification, is intended to bring more sustainable finish, fixture, and fitout products into high-performing buildings. Also, using multiple-attribute rather than single-attribute criteria are intended to encourage product manufacturers to reduce their environmental impacts in a more holistic manner and to encourage designers to look at the overall environmental impact rather than a single impact of a specified product.This section includes the following four items in Sections 901.4.1.4.1 (§ 9.4.1.4.1) through 901.4.1.4.4 (§ 9.4.1.4.4): industry-wide environmental product declarations (EPDs), product-specific EPDs, third-party multiple-attribute sustainable standard certifications, and product life-cycle assessments (LCAs). These declarations and certifications provide more holistic considerations of supply-chain impacts of products via LCA-based approaches. EPDs are the accepted methodology in industry and green building design standards for a manufacturer to communicate the impact that products and their manufacturing have on the environment.Each of the ISO standards listed in this section describes the process and documentation required for critical peer review. For EPDs, this process is called verification, and the minimum requirements for verification are described in the ISO standards. “Third-party” critical review or verification requires that the organization that verifies or critically reviews the document be independent of the organization that performed the analyses or developed the document. An EPD or LCA can be “internally” critically reviewed or verified; however, this does not meet the third-party requirement of the code. ISO 14025 also has qualifications (competencies) for the verifier.The goal of an EPD is to provide designers and purchasers with data that will inform decision-making between products that are similar or have similar functions, much the way nutritional labels on food packaging do today. However, as EPDs are transparency tools and are not intended as a guarantee of sustainable performance, the inclusion of other tools, such as multiple-attribute standards and certifications or individual product LCA, are also included. The intent is that the inclusion of these options in Section 901.4.1.4 (§ 9.4.1.4), along with the single-attribute approaches of recycled content, regional materials, and biobased products, are a good transitional methodology toward the long-term goal of product evaluation, including multiple-attribute product transparency, performance, and product LCA.
901.4.1.4.1 (9.4.1.4.1)
Industry-wide declaration.A Type III industry-wide environmental product declaration (EPD) shall be submitted for each product. Where the program operator explicitly recognizes the EPD as fully representative of the product group on a national level, it is considered industry-wide. In the case where an industry-wide EPD represents only a subset of an industry group, as opposed to being industry-wide, the manufacturer shall be explicitly recognized as a participant by the EPD program operator. All EPD shall be consistent with ISO Standards 14025 and 21930, with at least a cradle-to-gate scope. Each product complying with this section shall be counted as one product for compliance with Section 901.4.1.4 (9.4.1.4). Product credit in this section is gained by products installed in the building project having an industry-wide (generic) EPD. The EPDs must be third-party certified ISO 14025 or ISO 21930 Type III EPDs with at least a cradle-to-grave scope.To qualify as industry-wide, one of the following two conditions must be met.• The EPD program operator must explicitly recognize the EPD as being fully representative of the industry on the national level.• When the EPD represents only a subset of the industry group, the manufacturer that provides the EPD must be explicitly recognized as a participant in the industry-wide EPD by the EPD program operator.Life-cycle inventory (LCI) and LCA are valid methods of assessing sustainability, but they are a complex accounting of the quantities and impacts of all materials, energy, emissions, and waste. EPDs have gained popularity because they are easier to use than LCA reports to assess a product’s environmental impacts, yet they are based on LCA.Type III EPDs are created according to ISO 14025, Environmental Labels and Declarations—Type III Environmental Declarations—Principles and Procedures, and, for building products, ISO 21930, Sustainability in Buildings and Civil Engineering Works—Core Rules for Environmental Product Declarations of Construction Products and Services. EPDs list a set of predetermined environmental impacts for a given unit (such as area) of the product based on product category rules (PCRs). These labels emphasize transparency by listing environmental impacts but do not evaluate whether a product passes or fails any given performance level for an impact category.EPDs present environmental information in a standardized format for a given product category. Environmental information contained in an EPD is either based on the results of an LCA or from data collected during an LCI. Environmental information presented due to the results of an LCA could include global warming potential (GWP), acidification potential, eutrophication potential, and ozone depletion potential. Data collected during LCI and pre- sented in an EPD generally includes primary energy use, amounts of waste produced, and other data.Some retailers, architects, and designers are requesting EPDs because these labels are LCA-based and, therefore, more useful than single-attribute criteria (recycled content, regional materials, and biobased products) for assessing the sustainability of a product. However, EPDs are not always for a full range of impacts over a complete life cycle. For Section 901.4.1.4 (§ 9.4.1.4) of the GBCP-2023, only a minimum of cradle-to-gate scope is required. A cradle-to-gate scope is generally meant to include material extraction through manufacturing of the product and does not include impacts due to transport to the construction site, construction, use, demolition, and disposal or end-of-life.There are two primary types of EPDs: business-to-business (B-to-B) and business-to- consumer (B-to-C).B-to-B EPDs are frequently created for those products where the product use during the life cycle is not known. An example is concrete, where there are infinite possibilities for the use of a cubic yard of concrete once it leaves the readymixed concrete plant gate. It could be used as pavement, in a column, as a bridge component, or many other applications. An EPD for a product such as concrete is typically in a B-to-B format. It accounts for all the environmental impacts from cradle to gate, but it does not include environmental impacts related to the use phase. Thus, B-to-B EPDs should not be used for comparisons among products.B-to-C EPDs, alternatively, do account for all the environmental impacts over the full life cycle. These types of EPDs are typically created for products that have a known use in a building context—for example, carpet and other flooring materials. It is much easier to model the full LCA of these products because it is known how they will be used in the structure.ISO standards such as ISO 14025 and ISO 21930 specify that EPDs should not be used for comparisons between products except in specific, well-defined cases. The environmental impacts documented in separate EPDs can only be compared if:•the LCAs used to create the EPDs include a cradle-to-grave scope;•all products have the same function;•all products are quantified by the same functional unit;•the same Product Category Rule (PCR) was used to create the EPDs;•they comply with all of the requirements in ISO 14025, Section 601.7.2 (§ 6.7.2); and•for building products, they comply with all of the requirements in ISO 21930, Section 5.6.PCRs serve two main purposes. First, a PCR describes how an LCA is performed to determine the environmental impacts for a given product category (such as steel). This ensures consistency in procedures and interpretation of the commonly used LCA standards (ISO 14040 and ISO 14044). Second, a PCR establishes what environmental impacts and other information is reported in an EPD for a given product category. This ensures consistency in reporting.PCRs are typically developed by a program operator with input from stakeholders. The program operator generally maintains the PCR that was developed and the related EPDs on their website.
901.4.1.4.2 (9.4.1.4.2)
Product-specific declaration.A product-specific Type III EPD shall be submitted for each product. The product-specific declaration shall be manufacturer-specific for a product family. Type III EPDs shall be certified as complying with the goal and scope for the cradle-to-gate requirements in accordance with ISO Standards 14025 and 21930. Each product complying with this section shall be counted as two products for compliance with Section 901.4.1.4 (9.4.1.4).Product credit is gained in this section by products installed in the building project having a product-specific EPD. Each product having a product-specific EPD counts as two product credits toward the overall requirement of ten products complying under Section 901.4.1.4 (§ 9.4.1.4). The EPDs must be third-party certified ISO 14025 or ISO 21930 Type III EPDs with at least a cradle-to-gate scope. Product-specific EPDs are those for a particular product from a specific manufacturer. They can be for a product manufactured at a particular plant or an average for the product from many manufacturing plants.
901.4.1.4.3 (9.4.1.4.3)
Third-party multiattribute certification.A material-specific assessment shall be submitted for each product in accordance with one of the following standards, where applicable. The assessment shall be certified as meeting the minimum performance level specified in each standard. Each product complying with this section shall be counted as two products for compliance with Section 901.4.1.4 (9.4.1.4).a. ANSI/BIFMA e3b. NSF/ANSI 140c. NSF/ANSI 332d. NSF/ANSI 336e. NSF/ANSI 342f. NSF/ANSI 347g. NSC 373h. ANSI A138.1i. UL 100j. UL 102Product credit is gained in this section by products installed in the building project that are certified as meeting a minimum performance level according to one of the following multiple-attribute standards:•BIFMA e3-2019, Furniture Sustainability Standard•ANSI A138.1-2011, Standard Specifications for Sustainable Ceramic Tiles, Glass Tiles, and Tile Installation Materials•NSF 140-2019, Sustainability Assessment for Carpet•NSF 332-2015, Sustainability Assessment for Resilient Floor Coverings•NSF 336-2018, Sustainability Assessment for Commercial Furnishings Fabric•NSF 342-2019, Sustainability Assessment for Wallcovering Products•NSF 347-2018, Sustainability Assessment for Single-Ply Roofing Membranes•NSC 373-2013, Sustainability Assessment for Natural Dimension Stone•UL 100-2016, Standard for Sustainability for Gypsum Boards and Panels•UL 102-2012, Standard for Sustainability for Door LeafsEach product certified to one of these standards counts as two product credits toward the overall requirement of ten products complying under Section 901.4.1.4 (§ 9.4.1.4).Multiple-attribute sustainability standards provide criteria for minimum performance levels of products throughout their life cycle. The standards are life-cycle based and set metrics for environmental criteria such as energy reduction, waste diversion, recyclability, and natural resource conservation. Multiple-attribute standards treat products similar to how green building rating systems treat buildings. Product certification ensures that the products meet the levels of performance specified in the standards.
901.4.1.4.4 (9.4.1.4.4)
Product life cycle.A report by a third-party that has critically reviewed the life-cycle assessment (LCA) of a product, based on ISO Standards 14040 and 14044, shall be submitted. The report shall demonstrate compliance with the goal and scope for the cradle-to-gate requirements. Each product complying with this section shall be counted as two products for compliance with Section 901.4.1.4 (9.4.1.4).Product credit is gained in this section by products installed in the building project having an LCA based on ISO 14040 and ISO 14044. Each product with an LCA counts as two product credits toward the overall requirement of ten products complying under Section 901.4.1.4 (§ 9.4.1.4). The LCA must be critically reviewed by a third party and have a goal and scope that includes at least a cradle-to-gate boundary. More information on LCA is included in Section 901.5 (§ 9.5), although Section 901.5 (§ 9.5) applies to whole buildings with a cradle-to-grave scope rather than to individual products that are allowed to have a more limited scope.
901.5 (9.5)
Performance option.
901.5.1 (9.5.1)
Life-cycle assessment (LCA).An LCA shall be performed in accordance with ASTM E2921 and ISO Standard 14044, as modified by this section, for a minimum of two building alternatives, both of which shall conform to the owner’s project requirements (OPR). For the purposes of Section 9.5, values for global warming potential relative to CO2 shall be based on a 100-year time horizon when used for calculations, results, and comparisons. The performance option of Chapter 9 requires an LCA to be performed in accordance with the two standards referenced below, for a minimum of two building alternatives, both of which meet the owner's project requirements. An LCA quantifies the environmental impacts of materials from cradle to grave beginning with raw material acquisition and continuing through material disposal. Specifically, LCA considers the environmental impacts of materials due to raw materials acquisition, manufacturing, transporting, assembly, construction, use, reuse, maintenance, and waste management.The traditional LCA process has been written into an international standard by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO): ISO 14044 (Environmental Management - Life Cycle Assessment - Requirements and Guidelines). The traditional LCA process has four steps: goal definition and scoping, inventory analysis, impact assessment, and interpretation. The GBCP-2023 only references some of the ISO LCA requirements, but it is important to note that all of the requirements in ISO 14044 must be met.ASTM E2921—85, Standard Practice for Minimum Criteria for Comparing Whole Building Life Cycle Assessments for Use with Building Codes and Rating Systems, is also referenced in the GBCP-2023 and guides comparative assessments of whole building LCA studies. ASTM E2921 provides a practice framework and reporting criteria for performing a comparative whole-building life-cycle assessment analysis, but does not specify software tools, occupant behavior, environmental impacts, or the basic LCA methodology or calculations. The underlying LCA methodology and calculations are covered by ISO 14044.
901.5.1.1 (9.5.1.1)
LCA performance metric.The LCA shall demonstrate that the final building design achieves one of the following minimum improvements over the reference building design assessed in the LCA:a.Ten percent (10%) improvement in a minimum of each of two impact categories, one of which must be global warming.b.Five percent (5%) improvement in a minimum of each of three impact categories, one of which must be global warming.The following impact categories shall be used to determine compliance with this section and shall be included in the report described in Section 901.5.1.3 (9.5.1.3): land use, resource use, global warming, ozone layer depletion, human health effects, ecotoxicity, smog, acidification, and eutrophication.As part of the assessment, a comparative analysis must be conducted between a baseline or reference building and the final whole building design. With respect to comparisons, the LCA should, at a minimum, consider two building alternatives with the same functional requirements: Alternative A, a hypothetical building that meets the criteria, and Alternative B, the as-designed building. The two buildings must follow the guidelines of ASTM E2921, with modification from the GBCP-2023. Alternatives A and B must be of common construction, have the same location, orientation, size, function and space conditioning, and shall meet the project requirements of the owner.The results of the LCA for the building, Alternative B, must show improvements over the LCA results for the other building, Alternative A.The final whole building design as compared to the baseline building must meet one of the following thresholds:a.A minimum 10 percent improvement in at least two impact categories; orb.A minimum 5 percent improvement in at least three impact categories.Global warming must always be one of the impact categories that shows improvement in the comparative study. In addition, the GBCP-2023 requires that any values for global warming potential relative to CO2 shall be based on a 100- year time horizon. The time horizon being used in the software tool(s) to conduct the LCA study should be confirmed to be 100 years. In addition, categories that must be considered by the impact assessment are land use, resource use, global warming, ozone layer depletion, human health effects, ecotoxicity, smog, acidification, and eutrophication. Descriptions of the effects associated with these required categories are listed below.Impact Categories and Associated Endpoints•Land Use.
Land use loss or alteration of terrestrial habitat for wildlife.•Resource Use.
Decreased resources for future generations.•Global Warming.
Polar melt, soil moisture loss, longer seasons, forest loss/change, and change in wind and ocean patterns.•Ozone Layer Depletion.
Increased ultraviolet radiation.•Human Health Effects.
Increased morbidity and mortality.•Ecotoxicity.
Decreased production and biodiversity.•Smog.
Decreased visibility, eye irritation, respiratory tract and lung irritation, and vegetation damage.•Acidification.
Building corrosion, water body acidification, vegetation effects, and soil effects.•Eutrophication.
Nutrients (phosphorous and nitrogen) enter water bodies, such as lakes, estuaries, and slowmoving streams, causing excessive plant growth and oxygen depletion.Procedure 901.5.1.2 (§ 9.5.1.2)ASTM E2921 includes criteria for building service lives, life-cycle stages, study boundaries, and comparison methodologies. Section 901.5.1.2 (§ 9.5.1.2) includes modifications or clarifications to the requirements of ASTM E2921 that must be followed.The buildings must meet the water, energy, and indoor environmental requirements presented in Chapters 6, 7, and 8 of the GBCP-2023.The service life of each building should be determined on a case-by-case basis in accordance with the GBCP-2023, Table 1001.3.2.3 (Table 10.3.2.3), except for the case of a long-life building, which cannot have a service life less than 75 years. Long-life buildings include all buildings and occupancies except for temporary buildings, industrial buildings, and stand-alone parking structures.Building operational energy consumption can either be included or excluded from the scope of the LCA. The inclusion or exclusion of operational energy, however, must be consistent between the buildings considered. “Operational energy” refers to the natural gas, electricity, renewable energy, and other fuels used to heat and cool the building and meet its other energy needs. Operational energy is generally predicted on an annual basis using energy simulation software that complies with Appendix D. The annual energy use is then multiplied by the service life, usually 75 years.The same LCA tool (s) or software must be used for both Alternative A and Alternative B. Any software or tool used to conduct the LCA study must include a published third-party impact indicator method. This ensures that the underlying LCA data and methodology are consistent with best practices and are used in the industry.Performing an LCA can be resource and time intensive and requires a high level of data specificity. Although the LCA process is well defined and standardized, inventory and impact assessment results can be highly variable due to data quality and availability. The use of inaccurate, inappropriate, highly aggregated, or averaged data can lead to a flawed inventory and impact assessment of a product or building. Even for a single material, defining the inputs and outputs throughout the entire life cycle can be extremely complicated. Fortunately, software tools and databases that increase the accuracy and ease of conducting an inventory continue to emerge.More information is available on US GSA’s Sustainable Facilities Tool website that includes several LCA tools and resources. The list is not exhaustive, and not all of the software listed meets the requirements of this section.Prior to using any software to complete the LCA, it should be determined whether the software is capable of analyzing all impact categories required by this section for the major materials used in the building. Appropriate cut-off criteria based on mass, energy, and environmental relevance are allowed by ISO 14044 and its referenced documents so that only those materials that affect results need to be included.Multiple software models include data for materials extracted and/or manufactured in several countries, including the United States. The impacts of materials manufactured in some emerging countries can be many orders of magnitude greater than materials manufactured in the US because of less restrictive regulations and practices in those countries. Using data with geographic relevance is preferred. Data are also available through the US Life Cycle Inventory Database maintained by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory.The GBCP-2023 requires that material quantities of structural materials included in both the baseline and as-built buildings be verified by a registered design professional or other approved source suitable to the AHJ. This requirement provides assurances that material quantities are precise and therefore the results from the LCA study can be accurately compared. The registered design professional may be a member of the design team, so long as they are qualified to do material quantity takeoffs and can attest to the accuracy of the LCA material quantity input values.
901.5.1.2 (9.5.1.2)
Procedure.The LCA shall be performed in accordance with the service lives, life-cycle stages, study boundaries, and comparison methodologies of ASTM E2921 with the following modifications:a.Each building alternative shall comply with Chapters 6, 7 and 8 (Sections 6, 7, and 8) of this code.b.The service life of the buildings shall not be less than that determined using Table 1001.10 (10.10), except that the service life of long-life buildings shall be no less than 75 years.c.Operating energy consumption shall be included or excluded at the discretion of the project team.d.The LCA tool (or tools) or software shall include a published third-party impact indicator method.e.The estimate of structural system material quantities shall be verified by a registered design professional or other approved source.Procedure 901.5.1.2 (§ 9.5.1.2)ASTM E2921 includes criteria for building service lives, life-cycle stages, study boundaries, and comparison methodologies. Section 901.5.1.2 (§ 9.5.1.2) includes modifications or clarifications to the requirements of ASTM E2921 that must be followed.The buildings must meet the water, energy, and indoor environmental requirements presented in Chapters 6, 7, and 8 of the GBCP-2023.The service life of each building should be determined on a case-by-case basis in accordance with the GBCP-2023, Table 1001.10 (Table 10.10), except for the case of a long-life building, which cannot have a service life less than 75 years. Long-life buildings include all buildings and occupancies except for temporary buildings, industrial buildings, and stand-alone parking structures.Building operational energy consumption can either be included or excluded from the scope of the LCA. The inclusion or exclusion of operational energy, however, must be consistent between the buildings considered. “Operational energy” refers to the natural gas, electricity, renewable energy, and other fuels used to heat and cool the building and meet its other energy needs. Operational energy is generally predicted on an annual basis using energy simulation software that complies with Appendix D. The annual energy use is then multiplied by the service life, usually 75 years.The same LCA tool(s) or software must be used for both Alternative A and Alternative B.Any software or tool used to conduct the LCA study must include a published third-party impact indicator method. This ensures that the underlying LCA data and methodology are consistent with best practices and are used in the industry.Performing an LCA can be resource and time intensive and requires a high level of data specificity. Although the process is well defined and standardized, inventory and impact assessment results can be highly variable due to data quality and availability. The use of inaccurate, inappropriate, highly aggregated, or averaged data can lead to a flawed inventory and impact assessment of a product or building. Even for a single material, defining the inputs and outputs throughout the entire life cycle can be extremely complicated. Fortunately, software tools and databases that increase the accuracy and ease of conducting an inventory continue to emerge.More information is available on US GSA’s Sustainable Facilities Tool website that includes several LCA tools and resources. The list is not exhaustive, and not all of the software listed meets the requirements of this section.Prior to using any software to complete the LCA, it should be determined whether the software is capable of analyzing all impact categories required by this section for the major materials used in the building. Appropriate cut-off criteria based on mass, energy, and environmental relevance are allowed by ISO 14044 and its referenced documents so that only those materials that affect results need to be included.Multiple software models include data for materials extracted and/or manufactured in several countries, including the United States. Using data with geographic relevance is preferred. Data are also available through the US Life Cycle Inventory Database maintained by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory.The GBCP-2023 requires that material quantities of structural materials included in both the baseline and as-built buildings be verified by a registered design professional or other approved source suitable to the AHJ. This requirement provides assurances that material quantities are precise and therefore the results from the LCA study can be accurately compared. The registered design professional may be a member of the design team, so long as they are qualified to do material quantity takeoffs and can attest to the accuracy of the LCA material quantity input values.
901.5.1.3 (9.5.1.3)
Reporting.A report that includes a description of the building alternatives and their physical differences shall be prepared and shall comply with the reporting requirements stated in ASTM E2921. The name and address of the registered design professional or other approved source verifying structural system material quantities shall be included. A critical review shall be performed by an external expert independent of those performing the LCA.The report shall be submitted to the AHJ and include documentation of critical peer review by a third party, results from the review, and the reviewer’s name and contact information.The final step of a traditional LCA is interpretation. This step involves analyzing the results, reaching conclusions, explaining limitations, and providing recommendations. For the GBCP-2023, interpretation is accomplished in the form of an LCA report.A final LCA report must include a description of the buildings included in the LCA study and a summary of impacts for the baseline and as-built buildings that follow the reporting criteria of ASTM E2921. A summary is typically provided in a four-column table that lists the following: impact category included in the LCA, baseline building impact, as-designed building impact, and the percent difference between the two building designs.The report should show a 10 percent improvement in at least two (one of which must be global warming) of the impact categories or at least 5 percent improvement in three of the impact categories (one of which must be global warming), as well as the documentation of the critical review. The requirements for critical review are provided in ISO 14044 and shall be performed by an external expert independent of those conducting the LCA. Typically, the independent expert will sign the LCA report and list their name and credentials in the report.The name and address of the registered design professional or other approved source who verifies the structural system material quantities must also be included in the report, along with the software tool(s) used and impact indicator method.
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
•
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.