======================================================================
Chapter 6 Water Use Efficiency
======================================================================

Chapter 5 Site Sustainability - Green Building Code of Pakistan with Commentary
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2023
Green Building Code of Pakistan with Commentary
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2023 Green Building Code of Pakistan with Commentary 2021 Building Code of Pakistan 2024 International Energy Conservation Code and ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1-2022 (IECC) 2024 International Green Construction Code Code (IgCC) 2024 International Zoning Code (IZC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
Pakistan
/
2023 Green Building Code of Pakistan with Commentary
Chapter 5 Site Sustainability
2023 Green Building Code of Pakistan with Commentary
favorite_border
2021 IGCC
Amended
Version:
Dec 2024
Contents
Notes
Overview
Copyright
Preface
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Chapter 2 Reserved
Chapter 3 Definitions, Abbreviations and Acronyms
Chapter 4 Reserved
Chapter 5 Site Sustainability
501.1 (5.1) Scope.
501.2 (5.2) Compliance.
501.3 (5.3) Mandatory Provisions.
Chapter 6 Water Use Efficiency
Chapter 7 Energy Efficiency
Chapter 8 Indoor Environmental Quality (Ieq)
Chapter 9 Materials and Resources
Chapter 10 Construction and Plans for Operation
Informative Appendix a Normative References
Informative Appendix B Prescriptive Equipment Efficiency Tables for the Alternate Reduced Renewables and Increased Equipment Efficiency Approach in Section 701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1)
Informative Appendix C Performance Option for Energy Efficiency
Informative Appendix D Building Concentrations
Informative Appendix E Building Envelope Tables
Informative Appendix F Integrated Design
Informative Appendix G Informative References
Informative Appendix H Option for Energy Efficiency Using the IECC Prescriptive Compliance Path
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
CHAPTER
5 SITE SUSTAINABILITYGENERAL COMMENTSEnvironmentally responsible site selection and management during construction discourages development of previously undeveloped land, minimizes a building’s impact on ecosystems and waterways, encourages regionally appropriate landscaping, rewards smart transportation choices and controls stormwater runoff. Additionally, appropriate site management can reduce erosion, light pollution, the heat island effect and construction-related pollution.Chapter 5 contains requirements related to the selection and development of sites and the mitigation of heat island effect, light pollution, transportation and site debris impacts.It limits building projects to existing buildings and previously developed sites including brownfields, greyfields and greenfields. Development on greenfields is limited to sites that are located in walkable proximity to neighborhood services or public transit. Development on agricultural, forest or park land is permitted as long as the proposed building project is related to the intended function of the agricultural, forest or park land.Section 501.3.1.2 prohibits building development on previously undeveloped sites having an elevation lower than 1.5 m above the elevation of the 100-year flood and lands in close proximity to wetlands and to fish and wildlife habitat conservation areas.Section 501.3.2 requires predesign site inventory and assessment.Section 501.3.3 prohibits invasive plants and protects native plants on greenfields.Section 501.3.4 contains requirements for stormwater management systems.Section 501.3.5 requires the mitigation of heat island effect on hardscape surfaces and roofs. Mitigation of wall surfaces is a jurisdictional option.Section 501.3.6 provides mitigation of site light pollution as a jurisdictional option.Section 501.3.7 addresses transportation impacts, including requirements for pedestrian connectivity, bicycle parking and electric vehicle charging facilities. Bicycle parking location, rack design and security/visibility provisions are jurisdictional options.Section 501.3.8.1 provides building site waste management as a jurisdictional option based on percentage of landfill diversion.PURPOSEChapter 5 provides code provisions that allow the designer, owner, or developer to follow an integrated process to establish building site construction that considers environmental impacts and informs decisions on site design, construction, operations, and maintenance.
501.1 (5.1)
Scope.This section addresses requirements for building projects that pertain to site selection, site development, and mitigation of heat island effect, light pollution reduction, and mitigation of transportation impacts-; and shall be uniformly applicable on all buildings. The building site shall be physically accessible, environmentally suitable and complaint to master plan as approved by AHJ.The site sustainability measures in the GBCP-2023 are meant to address the environmental impacts associated with the selection, development, use and maintenance of a building site. For example, building on a greenfield or previously undeveloped site often disrupts natural ecosystems and increases the negative effects of erosion. Similarly, hardscape on a building site affects stormwater runoff and can increase the heat island effect, depending on the color, reflectivity, and emissivity of paved surfaces.The selection of a building site also affects air pollutant emissions, including carbon dioxide. Building occupants frequently rely on vehicular transportation to travel to and from the building. If a site is located adjacent to a residential community or public transportation lines, individuals are more able to use alternative forms of transportation including walking and bicycling, thereby reducing greenhouse gases and other pollutant emissions from passenger vehicles.Light pollution is another environmental impact associated with the design of a building site. Exterior lighting can disrupt the nocturnal habitats of wildlife and reduce visual access to night skies. Additionally, excessive, or improperly shielded lighting can travel beyond the building property line, disrupting adjacent properties with glare or blinding light.By evaluating site-related criteria early in the design process, projects can dramatically reduce the environmental impacts associated with site selection, storm water management, heat islands, light pollution, transportation, and site debris.
501.2 (5.2)
Compliance.All of the provisions of Chapter 5 (Section 5) are mandatory provisions.To comply with the site sustainability requirements of the GBCP-2023, projects shall demonstrate compliance with all Chapter 5 provisions. Chapter 5 does not include the prescriptive or performance paths found frequently in other chapters. Figure 5-A provides a graphical representation of the compliance requirements for Chapter 5, Site Sustainability.
Figure 5-ACompliance paths.
501.3 (5.3)
Mandatory provisions.The site-related requirements are mandatory for all projects. These mandatory provisions ensure that critical site-related features are implemented. The mandatory provisions cover the following topics: site selection, Section 501.3.1 (§ 5.3.1); predesign site inventory and assessment, Section 501.3.2 (§ 5.3.2); plants, Section 501.3.3 (§ 5.3.3.); stormwater management, Section 501.3.4 (§ 5.3.4); mitigation of heat island effect, Section 501.3.5 (§ 5.3.5); reduction of light pollution, Section 501.3.6 (§ 5.3.6); mitigation of transportation impacts, Section 501.3.7 (§ 5.3.7); and building site waste management, Section 501.3.8 (§ 5.3.8).
501.3.1 (5.3.1)
Site selection.The building project shall comply with Sections 501.3.1.1 (5.3.1.1) and 501.3.1.2 (5.3.1.2).This section provides criteria related to site selection and prohibits development activities on environmentally sensitive lands.
501.3.1.1 (5.3.1.1) Allowable sites.The site development for constructing building project shall take place in or on one of the following:a.An existing building envelope. A building or groups of buildings on a site that utilize a single submittal for a construction permit or NOC issued by AHJ or that are within the boundary of contiguous properties under single effective control.b.A brownfield. A site documented as contaminated by means of an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and Initial Environmental Examination (IEE), or a site classified as a brownfield by a local, provincial, or federal government agency.c.A greyfield. A site, of which more than 20% is currently or has been previously developed with impervious surfaces.d.A greenfield that is within 800 meter of land that is developed, or that has one or more buildings under construction, with an average density of ten dwelling units per acre (4 units per ha) unless that site is agricultural land or forest land. Proximity is determined by drawing a circle with an 800 meter radius around the center of the approved building project site on a:e.Greenfield: where the building complies with relevant provisions of the concerned AHJ; unless that site is agricultural or forest land.f.Greenfield: that is agricultural or forest land and the purpose of the building are related to the agricultural use of the land.g.Greenfield: that is forest land, and the purpose of the proposed building is related to the agricultural or forestry use of the land.h.Greenfield: that is designated park land, and the purpose of the proposed building is related to the use of the land as a park.As a measure to preserve open space, greenfields, and critical ecological functions that natural ecosystems provide, the GBCP-2023 establishes low impact development (LID) criteria intended to enhance the quality of development within any given community. Project owners and developers will need to adhere to their local jurisdictional planning for regulations pertaining to land use, zoning and density. Under the GBCP-2023, building projects are required to be located in or on one of the following:•An existing building. Reuse of and reinvestment in existing building infrastructure can be one of the most sustainable choices for a building project.•A brownfield as defined in Chapter 3.•A greyfield as defined in Chapter 3. Examples of a greyfield include an abandoned parking lot or an underutilized real-estate asset such as an aging retail mall or other commercial development. A greenfield as defined in Chapter 3, that is not agricultural land or forest land and that is within 1/2 mi (800 m) of residential land that is developed, or that has one or more buildings under construction with an average density of 10 dwelling units per acre (4 units per ha). Proximity is determined by drawing a circle with a 1/2 mi (800 m) radius around the center of the proposed site.•A greenfield where the proposed building complies with ASTM E2843, Standard Specification for Demonstrating that a Building is in Walkable Proximity to Neighborhood Assets, unless that site is agricultural land or forest land. By selecting a site in walkable proximity to wide range of neighborhood assets such as grocery stores, daycare facilities, dry cleaners, beauty shops, hardware stores, financial institutions, post offices and restaurants, building occupants will be less dependent on single-occupant vehicles for commuting, which has a direct impact on air pollutant emissions and other environmental factors. To determine whether a site meets this requirement, project teams are encouraged to create a scaled map showing the distance from the potential project site to surrounding neighborhood assets. A useful example of a basic services map, illustrating community connectivity, is provided in Figure 5-B.•A greenfield where the proposed building complies with ASTM E2844, Standard Specification for Demonstrating that a Building’s Location Provides Access to Public Transit, unless that site is agricultural land or forest land. By selecting a site with access to alternative or public transportation routes, building occupants will be less dependent on single-occupant vehicles for commuting, which has a direct impact on air pollutant emissions and other environmental factors. To determine whether a potential site meets this requirement, projects should create a scaled map showing the location of the project site in relation to the surrounding public transportation routes. A useful sample drawing for this type of transportation map is shown in Figure 5-C.•A greenfield that is agricultural land for a building purpose that relates to agriculture. The intent of this requirement is to promote local agricultural trade and production by reserving lands with suitable soil, water properties, etc., for projects that are dependent on these site characteristics. A greenfield that is forest land and where the building’s purpose is related to forestry. The intent of this requirement is to prohibit development that leads to deforestation, which has a direct impact on wildlife habitat, biodiversity, carbon sequestration, erosion, and other environmental factors. An example of a building appropriately located on a greenfield that is a designated forest land might include a ranger station, visitor center, or forestry service building located within a national forest.
Figure 5-BSample map of community connectivity.Source: LEED Reference Guide for Green Building Design and Construction, 2009 Edition, Sustainable Sites Credit 2: Development Density and Community Connectivity
Figure 5-CSample map of community connectivity.Source: LEED Reference Guide for Green Building Design and Construction, 2009 Edition, Sustainable Sites Credit 4.1: Alternative Transportation—Public Transportation Access•On a greenfield that is designated park land and where the building’s purpose relates to use of the land as a park. Examples of acceptable buildings on greenfield sites that are designated park land might include an administration building servicing a local national park, visitor center, or a recreational facility located within a municipal public park.
501.3.1.2 (5.3.1.2) Prohibited development activity.There shall be no site disturbance or development of the following:a.Previously undeveloped land having an elevation lower than 5 ft (1.5 m) above the elevation of the 100 year flood, as defined by AHJ. All types of building construction within the flood limit of rivers, natural streams (Nallahs) and natural drainage systems are prohibited. Appropriate demarcation mapping of floodplains shall be considered for the site sustainability, as per the flood inundation map of site be approved by the AHJ.Exceptions:1.Development of low-impact trails shall be allowed anywhere within a flood zone.2.Development of building structures shall be allowed in alluvial “AO” designated flood zones, provided that such structures include engineered flood proofing up to an elevation that is at least as high as the minimum lowest floor elevation determined by the AHJ and provided that the site includes drainage paths constructed to guide floodwaters around and away from the structures.b.Land within 150 ft (50 m) of any fish and wildlife habitat conservation area.Exceptions:1.Development of low-impact trails shall be allowed, provided that such trails are located at least 15 ft (4.5 m) from the area.2.Site disturbance or development shall be allowed for habitat enhancement measures.c.Land within 100 ft (35 m) of any wetland, both in urban and rural areas.Exceptions:1.Development of low-impact trails shall be allowed, provided that such trails are located at least 15 ft (4.5 m) from the wetland.2,Site disturbance or development shall be allowed for habitat enhancement measures or for restoration of the functions of the wetland.In order to protect environmentally sensitive lands from development, there shall be no site disturbance or development of the following:a.Previously undeveloped land having an elevation lower than 5 feet (1.5 m) above the elevation of the 100-year flood as defined by AHJ. A 100-year flood pertains to “the flood elevation that has a 1 percent chance of being reached or exceeded each year.” The intent of this requirement is to minimize the risk of site-related hazards, such as flooding, that may result from naturally occurring storm events, and to promote stormwater infiltration.Exceptions to 501.3.1.2(a) [§ 5.3.1.2(a)]Two exceptions to Section 501.3.1.2(a) [§ 5.3.1.2(a)] exist.1.The first exception allows the development of low-impact trails anywhere within a flood zone. Low-impact trails are pathways or tracks intended for pedestrian and nonmotorized vehicles. They are erosion-stabilized and use permeable or natural ground cover. Although some damage to low-impact trails may occur during a flood, trails do not significantly impede water flow or infiltration.2.The second exception to this requirement allows building structures to be located within alluvial “AO” flood zones, as designated by FCC Flood Inundation Rate Maps (FIRMS)† “AO” zones are those where flood depths of 1 to 3 feet (305 mm to 915 mm) have a 1 percent chance of occurring each year. The flooding in this zone is usually sheet flow on sloping terrain rather than ponding in low lying areas. Building structure development is acceptable within an AO flood zone if engineered flood- proofing that protects the building and floodwater control is included in the design. Floodproofing protects the building to a floor elevation not lower than the flood elevation. Floodwater control diverts the water around and away from the building structures. An example of floodproofing is elevating the lowest floor of a building 12 inches (305 mm) above the designated design flood elevation†† In addition, the building foundation shall be designed and constructed with materials that are flood-resistant and can withstand all anticipated flood loads.†††† http://ffc.gov.pk†† Minimum lowest floor elevation is determined by the AHJ††† http://www.wbdg.org/resources/env_flood.phpb.Land within 150 feet (50 m) of any fish and wildlife habitat conservation area. These areas are designated at the federal level as areas that support the needs of endangered, threatened, or sensitive plant or animal species.Exceptions to Section 501.3.1.2(b) [§ 5.3.1.2(b)]Where the disturbance or development comprises low-impact trails, construction of such trails is allowed no closer than 15 feet (4.5 m) to the habitat conservation areas as such trails minimally disturb the surrounding environment.Site disturbance or development shall be allowed for habitat enhancement measures or for restoration of the habitat.c.Land within 100 feet (35 m) of any wetland. Wetlands are areas where the ground is routinely saturated with water such that only plants adapted to these damp conditions can thrive. They typically are low lying areas where water collects. These areas frequently act as a means of controlling water flow during periods of heavy rain or snow runoff. By controlling water flow, silt and other debris are able to settle out of the water. The vegetation and wildlife that populate the areas provide further filtration of the water passing through the area. Wetlands include areas designated as such by the relevant provincial or federal entities but also include any area that meets the ground and vegetation conditions. These areas may be manmade or naturally occurring. An example of a manmade wetland includes detention areas that control site water runoff.Exceptions to Section 501.3.1.2(c) [§ 5.3.1.2(c)]As with fish and wildlife habitat conservation areas, where the disturbance or development comprises low-impact trails, construction of such trails is allowed no closer than 15 feet (4.5 m) to wetland areas, as such trails should minimally disturb the surrounding environment.Site disturbance or development shall be allowed for habitat enhancement measures or for restoration of the functions of the wetland.
501.3.2 (5.3.2) Predesign site inventory and assessment. A predesign inventory and assessment of the natural resources of the building project site shall be submitted with the site design and construction documents. The inventory and assessment shall highlight environment friendly and mitigation measures, including all of the following:a.Sustainability pre-requisites of proposed site, with reference to the Climatic Conditions as per the Climate Zones / Maps developed by Pakistan Meteorological Department (PMD).b.The location of site and the proposed layout/design of building project to minimize the Heat Island Effects.c.Location of any prohibited development areas identified in Section 501.3.1.2 (5.3.1.2) that are located on or adjacent to the building project site.d.Identification of invasive plant species on the site.e.Identification of native or invasive plant species on the site.f.Identification of site features designated for preservation of natural habitats and existing cultural or archeological structures.After the project site has been selected but before design has begun, a site inventory and assessment of the natural resources on the site shall be taken. The results of the assessment and inventory shall be included on the design and construction documents. It shall identify the following items:a.The location of prohibited development areas such as flood zones, fish and wildlife habitat conservation areas, and wetlands as prescribed by Section 501.3.1.2 (§ 5.3.1.2).b.The species of all invasive plants found on the building site that are named in provincial or federal laws as being invasive. Invasive plants are plants that are not native or adapted to the site and pose a high risk of environmental harm. All invasive plants found on the site shall be included in the site inventory.c.The species of all native plants found on the building site. Native plants are indigenous to the local environment and contribute to a healthy ecosystem and by definition are not invasive.d.Any site features that are designated for preservation. This includes any vegetation, topography, geology, or any other feature that is to be preserved.
501.3.3 (5.3.3) Plants.
501.3.3.1 (5.3.3.1)
Invasive plants.Invasive plants shall be removed from the building project site and destroyed or disposed of in a land fill. Invasive plants shall not be planted on the building project site.Invasive plants outcompete and displace native plants that are vital to a healthy ecosystem. When invasive plants are found on the project site, they shall be removed and either destroyed or disposed of in a landfill. The objective is to prevent these plants from reestablishing. Invasive plants shall not be planted on the building site.
501.3.3.2 (5.3.3.2) Greenfield sites.a.More than 20% existing native or adapted plants. Where more than 20% of the area of the predevelopment site has existing native plants or adapted plants, a minimum of 20% of the area of native plants or adapted plants shall be retained. The selection of native plants be human friendly, especially the children.b.Less than 20% existing native or adapted plants.1.Where 20% or less of the area of the predevelopment site has existing native plants or adapted plants, a minimum of 20% of the site shall be developed or retained as vegetated area. Such vegetated areas include bio-retention facilities, rain gardens, filter strips, grass swales, vegetated level spreaders, constructed wetlands, planters, and open space with plantings.2.A minimum of 60% of the vegetated area shall consist of bio-diverse planting of native plants or adapted plants other than turf-grass.Exception: The following areas shall not be included in the calculations: dedicated sports fields, driving ranges/roads, burial grounds or graveyards, vegetated pavers, and the minimum fire lanes required by AHJ.For greenfields, the following requirements shall be met to ensure that sites maintain existing native or adapted plants or add new native or adapted plants to the site landscape while limiting the use of turfgrass.1.If the predevelopment site contains native plants or adapted plants that have a total area that is greater than 20 percent of the total site area, a minimum of 20 percent of the area of native plants or adapted plants shall be retained.2.If the predevelopment site is covered by native plants or adapted plants that have a total area equal to 20 percent or less of the total site area, a minimum of 20 percent of the site area shall be developed or retained as vegetated area. Such vegetated areas include bioretention facilities, rain gardens, filter strips, grass swales, vegetated level spreaders, constructed wetlands, planters, or open space with plantings. At least 60 percent of the vegetated area shall consist of biodiverse planting of native plants or adapted plants other than turfgrass.Exception: The following areas shall not be included in the calculations: dedicated sports fields, driving ranges, burial grounds, vegetated pavers, and the minimum fire lanes required by the jurisdiction.
501.3.4 (5.3.4) Storm-water management.Storm-water management systems shall be provided on the building site. Except to the extent that other storm-water management approaches are required by a local, provincial, or federal jurisdiction, these systems shall be limited to one or more of the following management methods:a.Infiltration.b.Evapotranspiration.c.Rainwater harvesting, storage and use.d.Storm-water collection and use.Uncontrolled stormwater runoff can cause excessive soil erosion, flooding, environmental damage and degradation, or property and infrastructure damage. Stormwater management strategies reduce the flow rate and total volume of stormwater that leaves the project site. Stormwater management systems also reduce water contaminants introduced by nonpermeable surfaces. To meet the stormwater management requirements of Section 501.3.4 (§ 5.3.4), one or more of the following management strategies shall be implemented:a.Infiltration. The process of allowing precipitation to saturate the ground of the project site. The water will migrate through the earth and eventually contribute to aquifers below.b.Evapotranspiration. The sum of evaporation of water from the ground and other surfaces, and transpiration of water from vegetation.c.Rainwater harvesting. The collection and storage of precipitation that has fallen on a building or building site, for the purposes of being reused.d.Stormwater collection and storage. Similar to rainwater harvesting, this is the collection and storage of precipitation. However, stormwater collection typically refers to the collection of precipitation that has fallen on dirt or paved surfaces. Compared to rainwater, stormwater typically contains more sediment and contaminants, which affect the necessary treatment and potential uses. Retention ponds be constructed on site for utilization of stormwater for alternate uses, as it will control the urban flooding effectively.All of the strategies provided above reduce both the flow rate and the total volume of stormwater runoff. The implementation of these strategies contributes to compliance with Sections 501.3.4.1 (§ 5.3.4.1), 501.3.4.2 (§ 5.3.4.2), and 501.3.4.3 (§ 5.3.4.3).These requirements are not intended to circumnavigate any local stormwater management requirements. Where local, state, or federal regulations require implementation of specific stormwater management practices that conflict with the stormwater management strategies listed above, the local regulations shall take precedence.Note that local regulations may not always require specific stormwater management practices. They may, however, prohibit certain strategies required by this section. Unless all stormwater management strategies listed in this section are prohibited, the project is expected to include one or more of the strategies that are not prohibited.
501.3.4.1 (5.3.4.1) Projects on green fields.Projects on green fields shall comply with at least one of the following:a.Storm water management systems shall retain on site no less than the volume of precipitation during a single 24 hour period equal to the 95th percentile precipitation event. Building projects with storm water management systems that are designed to retain volumes greater than that of the 98th percentile precipitation event shall conduct a hydrologic analysis of the building site to determine the water balance of the site prior to its development, clearing, and filling and to demonstrate that the storm water management system will not cause ecological impairment by starving receiving waters downstream of the site.b.The storm water management system design shall maintain site water balance (the combined runoff, infiltration, and evapotranspiration) based on a hydrologic analysis of the site’s conditions prior to development, clearing, and filling. Post construction runoff rate, volume, and duration shall not exceed rates preceding development, clearing, or filling of the site.Projects located on greenfields shall comply with at least one of the requirements listed in this section.To comply with this option, project sites shall be able to retain no less than the volume of water that would fall in a 24- hour period during a 95th percentile precipitation event. For example, for a given project site location, 95 percent of all rainfall events in the past 30 years have not exceeded 1.5 inches (38.1 mm) in a 24-hour period. For a project site in this location that covers 100,000 square feet (9290 m2), the 95th percentile volume of precipitation in a 24-hour period would be 12,500 cubic feet (350 m3). The project site shall be capable of retaining no less than this volume of water on site.The method of retaining the water on site is not dictated by the GBCP-2023. Common methods capable of satisfying the requirements of this section include but are not limited to detention and retention basins. Retention basins are typically wet and normally hold water. Where used as the sole stormwater management system, these retention basins shall be capable of accepting the 95th percentile rainfall volume in addition to the typical standing water volume held in the basin. Detention basins are normally dry, so the volume of the basin is much closer to the volume of the 95th percentile event.While retaining stormwater can be beneficial in reducing erosion and flood damage, retaining too much water can also have negative environmental impacts. For example, retaining too much water can prevent necessary water delivery to downstream vegetation. If the building project is designed with a stormwater management system that is capable of retaining a volume of water greater than that associated with a 98th percentile precipitation event, a water balance analysis shall be performed to demonstrate that the postconstruction runoff will be enough to sustain the predevelopment downstream environment. Typically, although not a requirement of the code, the runoff volume should be close to the predevelopment runoff volume without exceeding it.Another option is to maintain site water balance. When a greenfield is developed, the site water balance (Figure 5-D) changes. The predevelopment water balance will typically have a much higher evapotranspiration and infiltration rate than the postconstruction water balance. This change is associated with the replacement of vegetation with impervious materials. On the predevelopment site, the pervious area is much larger, allowing greater infiltration. Additionally, the probable higher density of vegetation provides more evapotranspiration, which promotes additional infiltration.To comply with this option, the project team shall demonstrate that the postconstruction stormwater runoff rate is not greater than the predevelopment runoff rate based on a hydrologic analysis of the site. Since the hydrologic analysis methodology is not specified by the code, any analysis method may be used, but commonly used methodologies are recommended as familiarity provides confidence in the results and eases analysis review. It is important to note that the predevelopment site represents the site conditions prior to any manmade topographical changes or vegetation clearing. For example, if a site is cleared of all trees only to lay vacant for an extended period of time prior to the project design, the water balance shall be performed for the site as it existed prior to the tree clearing.As most developed sites include less vegetation and more hardscape than a greenfield, maintaining the predevelopment runoff after development increases the importance of implementation of the stormwater management practices listed in Section 501.3.4 (§ 5.3.4). Retaining stormwater on site through retention areas or rainwater harvesting allows rainwater to be held for extended periods after precipitation has ended. This allows the rainwater to be distributed to the site during periods of low precipitation to be consumed primarily by infiltration and evapotranspiration. Without retention, the stormwater runoff would be much higher than that of a predevelopment greenfield.
Figure 5-DWater balance diagram.
501.3.4.2 (5.3.4.2)
Projects on grey fields. Projects on grey fields shall retain on site no less than the volume of precipitation during a single 24 hour-period equal to or greater than the 60th percentile precipitation event, or the percentile precipitation as told by AHJ.Exception: Where any fraction of the 60th percentile precipitation event or the percentile precipitation approved by AHJ cannot be retained, that fraction shall be treated to limit total suspended solids to 25 milligrams per liter in the remaining discharge.As greyfields are sites where more than 20 percent of the site area is covered by or has been covered by impervious material, the on-site retention requirements vary relative to a greenfield where 20% or less of the site surface is impervious. Projects on greyfields shall retain on site no less than the volume of precipitation that would occur during a single 24-hour period equal to or greater than the 60th percentile precipitation event based on historical precipitation data for the area.Where the project site is incapable of retaining the required volume of water, this requirement can still be met, provided that the volume in excess of the minimum required volume is treated to reduce the total suspended solids to no more than 25 mg/L. For example, if the retained volume to comply with the 60th percentile precipitation event is 5,000 cubic feet (140 m3) but the project site is only capable of retaining 3,000 cubic feet (85 m3), the remaining 2,000 cubic feet (55 m3) that is discharged during a precipitation event shall be treated to reduce the total suspended solids to the prescribed concentration. Retention basins are a common method of removing suspended solids. However, as this exception is specifically for projects that do not meet the retention requirement, this technique does not satisfy the requirement of the exception. Possible alternative methods of removing the suspended solids include sand filtration, vegetative filtration, manufactured filtration, or other filtration systems that remove suspended solids from active runoff.
501.3.4.3 (5.3.4.3) Discharge rate.Building project sites shall be designed and constructed to comply with one of the following requirements:a.The discharge of the design storm shall occur over a period of not less than 48 hours.b.The discharge flow duration curve at any point in time shall be plus or minus 10% of the flow duration curve for channelforming discharges for the site prior to its development, clearing, or filling.The discharge rate of stormwater from the site can have negative environmental impacts on the site or the downstream environment if the rate of discharge is too sudden or too high. Excessive flow can cause channel erosion and lead to property damage, and potentially unsafe environmental conditions.Sections 501.3.4.1 (§ 5.3.4.1) and 501.3.4.2 (§ 5.3.4.2) both require the use of on-site stormwater retention. While stormwater retention may provide a means to reuse stormwater or remove suspended solids, the primary function of stormwater retention is to regulate the rate of stormwater discharge. Site stormwater retention systems accomplish this by providing a buffer.The stormwater discharge rate shall be controlled using one of two options provided by this section.a.The first option requires the design storm to be discharged over at least a 48-hour period. The design storm for greenfields is the 95th percentile precipitation event and 60th percentile precipitation event for greyfields. For example, for a project site that is required to retain 12,500 cubic feet (350 m3) for the design storm, the discharge rate shall not exceed 260 cubic feet per hour (7.4 m3/h). The rate of discharge is typically maintained by controlling the size of the retention or detention basin outlet. Common control methods include orifice outlets, weir outlets, and vertical risers. Other outlet types are acceptable, provided the design stormwater volume is not discharged in less than 48 hours. The outlet type selected depends on local conditions and the precipitation frequency. Some outlet configurations are more prone to clogging and prevent discharge. For storms that exceed the design precipitation, some designs discharge the excess stormwater volume through a separate overflow path sized for a greater discharge rate, using the overflow discharge only after the design stormwater volume has been retained.b.If the second option is used, the design may not include a means of retaining stormwater. Excluding a means of retention prevents the use of Section 501.3.4.3(a) [§ 5.3.4.3(a)]. This option provides discharge rate limits for designs that use Section 501.3.4.1(b) [§ 5.3.4.1(b)]. When using this option, the discharge rate from the site shall be controlled to within +/- 10 percent of the flow duration curve for channel-forming discharge of the predevelopment site. As previously described, predevelopment is the state of the site prior to any human-made modifications, including clearing or filling. The flow duration curve is a plot of the discharge rate relative to the respective duration (time) that results in channel formation. The curve is created for each project as it is based on site specific predevelopment conditions. For greenfields, the downstream ecosystem and environment has adapted to the predevelopment stormwater discharge rate from the project site. Maintaining the post-construction discharge rate within +/- 10 percent of the predevelopment discharge rate ensures that the site discharge will not cause erosion but will provide enough water to sustain the established downstream ecosystem. Unlike stormwater management systems that retain water for discharge rate control, water-balance uses a combination of infiltration and evapotranspiration to control discharge. This strategy requires a higher vegetation density and broader use of permeable surfaces than is typically found in less sustainable development.
501.3.4.4 (5.3.4.4) Adjoining lots.The storm water management system shall direct or concentrate off-site discharge to avoid increased erosion or other drainage-related damage to adjoining lots or public property.To avoid erosion or other damage to adjoining lots or public property, the stormwater management system shall direct or concentrate the off-site discharge to a dedicated path, such as a drainage swale, ditch, or culvert. In some cases, the offsite discharge path may be a native creek or stream previously utilized by the site runoff.
501.3.4.5 (5.3.4.5) Discharges from contaminated soils.Storm water management systems on areas of brownfields where contaminated soils are left in place shall not use infiltration practices that will result in pollutant discharges to groundwater. Storm water discharge from brownfields shall be treated to limit total suspended solids as per the National Environmental Quality Standards (NEQS). Storm water management systems shall not penetrate, damage, or otherwise compromise remediation actions at the building site.On brownfields where contaminated soil has been sequestered, the stormwater management system shall not compromise the sequestration system. These engineered systems are constructed to contain and control the contamination. They typically encase the contaminated soil on all sides. The stormwater management system on sites that contain contaminated soil shall not disturb the sequestration system by allowing infiltration practices that compromise the sequestration system’s integrity. Any discharge from a brownfield shall be treated to limit total suspended solids to 25 mg/L or less. The stormwater management system shall not penetrate, damage, or otherwise compromise remediation actions at the site.
501.3.4.6 (5.3.4.6) Coal tar sealants.The use of tar sealants shall be prohibited in any application exposed to storm water, wash waters, condensates, irrigation water, snowmelt, or ice-melt.Coal tar sealants shall not be used on surfaces exposed to any water source, including stormwater, wash water, condensate, irrigation water, snowmelt and icemelt. Coal tar sealants have historically been applied to paved surfaces (and other impervious surfaces) to extend their life. Coal-tar-based sealants contain toxic chemicals that are released into stormwater. This is hazardous to wildlife and human health. Commercially available alternatives are widely available. USEPA chemical guidelines be followed for handling toxic chemicals associated with construction sector.
501.3.5 (5.3.5) Mitigation of heat island effect. “Heat island” is a term used to describe developed areas that are hotter than nearby rural areas. Heat island effect mitigation is a site-related issue that addresses the shading, reflectivity and thermal emissivity properties of site hardscape, roof, and wall surfaces. The intent of this section is to reduce the heat-absorbing potential of the surfaces through limiting the quantity of the surfaces that are more exposed to solar heating, by specifying surfaces that have a higher reflectivity (hence lower absorptivity), and (in some cases) having materials designed to release more heat through thermal radiation cooling. The heat island effect is distinct from building heat gain, which refers to heat transfer through the building envelope.Note that the building operation plan for site sustainability specified in Section 1001.9.1 (§ 10.9.1) describes maintenance procedures needed to maintain the heat island mitigation features identified in Section 501.3.5 (§ 5.3.5).
501.3.5.1 (5.3.5.1) Site hardscape. At least 50% of the site hardscape that is not covered by solar energy systems shall be provided with one or any combination of the following:a.Existing trees and vegetation or new bio-diverse plantings of native plants and adapted plants, which shall be planted either prior to the final approval by the AHJ or in accordance with a contract established to require planting no later than 12 months after the final approval by the AHJ so as to provide the required shade no later than ten years after the final approval. The effective shade coverage on the hardscape shall be the arithmetic mean of the shade coverage calculated at 10 a.m., noon, and 3 p.m. on the summer solstice.b.Paving materials with a minimum initial solar reflectance index (SRI) as indicated by AHJ.c.Open-graded (uniform-sized) aggregate, permeable pavement, permeable pavers, and porous pavers (open-grid pavers). Permeable pavement and permeable pavers shall have a percolation rate of not less than 2 gal/min • ft2 (100 L/min • m2).d.Shading through the use of structures, provided that the top surface of the shading structure complies with the provisions of Section 501.3.5.3 (5.3.5.3).e.Parking under a building, provided that the roof of the building complies with the provisions of Section 501.3.5.3 (5.3.5.3).f.Buildings or structures that provide shade to the site hardscape. The effective shade coverage on the hardscape shall be the arithmetic mean of the shade coverage calculated at 10 a.m., noon, and 3 p.m. on the summer solstice.Excluding solar energy system surfaces, at least 50 percent of the site hardscape, including roads, driveways, sidewalks, plazas, courtyards, and parking lots, shall include at least one of the following:a.Existing trees and vegetation or new biodiverse plantings of native and adapted plants that will provide shade within 10 years. Such plantings shall be completed either before final approval of the project by the AHJ or completed in accordance with a contract that requires that the plantings be in place within 12 months after the final approval by the AHJ, to provide the required shade no later than 10 years after final approval. A shading analysis shall demonstrate that the effective shade coverage on the hardscape equals or exceeds the arithmetic mean of the shade coverage calculated at 10 a.m., noon, and 3 p.m. solar time on the summer solstice (June 21 in the northern hemisphere and December 21 in the southern hemisphere). Since solar characteristics are part of this demonstration, the times used are assumed to be solar time and not, for example, daylight savings time.b.Paving materials with an initial solar reflectance index (SRI) of at least 29. Many types of products meet the required SRI, including many acrylic paints and coatings, new concrete, new white Portland cement concrete, etc. Although not a requirement of the code, documentation of measured SRI would typically be required to demonstrate compliance, except for new concrete without added color pigment, which is assumed to have an SRI value of 35 without measurement. SRI was developed as an indicator of temperature effects of the sun on flat, nonporous surfaces. More information on SRI calculations and testing can be found in Section 501.3.5.4 (§ 5.3.5.4).c.Open-graded (uniform-sized) aggregate, permeable pavement, permeable pavers, and porous pavers (open-grid pavers). No additional testing is required for open-graded aggregate or porous pavers. Materials with greater porosity mitigate the heat island effect due to lower heat absorption capacity; greater water storage capacity and resultant evaporative cooling; and more communication with the ground and its evaporative cooling capacity. Studies have shown porous and permeable pavement systems store less heat energy when exposed to the sun. This results in lower daytime and nighttime temperatures as compared to traditional pavements with the same SRI. Permeable pavement (e.g., pervious concrete or porous asphalt) and permeable pavers shall have percolation rates greater than or equal to 2 gallons per minute per square foot (100 L/min·m2).d.Shading provided by structures that meet Section 501.3.5.3 (§ 5.3.5.3), “Roofs,” requirements. For example, the top deck of a parking structure and shade carport structures covering vehicles shall meet the SRI requirement for roofs.e.Parking under the building, provided that the roof of the building complies with the provisions of Section 501.3.5.3 (§ 5.3.5.3). Undergroud parking reduces the amount of at-grade hardscape that would otherwise be used for surface parking lots.f.Shading of the site hardscape provided by adjacent buildings or structures. Selecting a site adjacent to surrounding buildings frequently increases the amount of shading on the site hardscape, depending on the height and positioning of the surrounding buildings. Figure 5-E provides an example of how buildings can be used to shade hardscape or other areas requiring shade. A shading analysis shall demonstrate that the effective shade coverage on the hardscape equals or exceeds the arithmetic mean of shade coverage at 10 a.m., noon, and 3 p.m. solar time on the summer solstice. (June 21 in the northern hemisphere and December 21 in the southern hemisphere).The 50 percent hardscape requirement does not apply to solar energy systems, which include photovoltaic (PV) and solar thermal systems. The site hardscape area is calculated without including the area covered by these systems. Project teams using vegetation to provide shade to reduce heat island effect shall also meet other sections of the code that have requirements for plants. For instance, Section 501.3.3.1 (§ 5.3.3.1) prohibits the use of invasive plants. Sections 501.3.3.2 (§ 5.3.3.2) and 601.3.1.1 (§ 6.3.1.1) require a minimum area of native plants and adapted plants. Section 1001.9.1(a) [§ 10.9.1(a)] requires a plan for operation that addresses maintenance procedures for plants including replacement procedures.Vegetation reduces heat islands by shading buildings and pavements from solar radiation and cooling the air through evapotranspiration. Trees and other vegetation need adequate root space to reach their anticipated size and shade coverage within 10 years. Trellises and other exterior structures can be used to support vegetation to shade parking lots, walkways, and plazas. For some climates, deciduous trees allow for incident solar radiation to reach site hardscape or building envelopes and provide solar heat gains during the winter months when outside temperatures are colder, and shade during the summer months when shading is required.Where tree planting is not possible, consider using architectural shading devices and structures to block direct solar radiation. Solar energy system installations can contribute to shading hardscape, for example, using PVs as canopies or overhangs to provide useful shading to parking spaces.Reducing the area of impervious hardscape surfaces on the site helps to reduce the heat island effect. For instance, parking lots, roads, walkways, and porous pavers (open-grid pavers) that are at least 40 percent pervious will help reduce the heat island effect. Another way to reduce hardscape surfaces is to locate parking under shading structures or the building itself. This can include using multistory or underground parking structures. As mentioned previously, any roof used to shade or cover surface parking shall comply with Section 501.3.5.1 (§ 5.3.5.3). Early in the design process, the project landscape architect, architect, or civil engineer can consider site design options that reduce hardscape surfaces and evaluate the potential for locating parking underground or under cover. For example, consider a building located on a 25,000-square-foot (2,300 m2) project site that includes 10,000 square feet (930 m2) of hardscape. The project team employs strategies to reduce the heat island effect for site hardscape by installing deciduous trees to shade parking and driveway areas and using concrete with an SRI of 35 for driving aisles and walkways (see Figure 5-F). Areas containing hardscape that meets the SRI requirement and are shaded by trees are counted only once. Figure 5-G lists the areas of qualifying surfaces used in determining the percentage of the hardscape area in compliance with this section for this example. The result is that 70 percent of the hardscape is compliant and therefore meets the 50-percent minimum requirement of this section.Exception to § 5.3.5.1Some Climate Zones are excluded from compliance with this provision because heat island effect is not considered to be a problem in predominantly cold climates. Figure 5-H, from Annex 1 of the code, provides an overview of international climate zones developed by ASHRAE, which provides climate data of 33 districts of Pakistan. PMD also provides climate data of all locations of Pakistan.
Figure 5-ESample area drawing for shading by building.
Figure 5-FShading and SRI used to mitigate the heat island effect of site hardscapes.Source: LEED Reference Guide for Green Building Design and Construction, 2009 Edition
DescriptionArea ft2 (m2)Total site hardscape10,000 ft2 (929 m2)Shaded areas3,000 ft2 (279 m2)Areas of hardscape with minimum SRI-294,000 ft2 (372 m2)Total qualifying surfaces7,000 ft2 (650 m2)Percent of site hardscape that is compliant70%Figure 5-GQualifying hardscape surface areas for mitigating heat island effectSource: LEED Reference Guide for Green Building Design and Construction, 2009 Edition
501.3.5.2 (5.3.5.2) [JO] Walls.Above-grade building walls and retaining walls shall be shaded in accordance with this section. The building is allowed to be rotated up to 45 degrees to the nearest cardinal orientation for purposes of calculations and showing compliance. Compliance with this section shall be achieved through the use of shade-providing plants, man-made structures, existing buildings, hillsides, permanent building projections, on-site renewable energy systems, or a combination of these, using the following criteria:a.Shade shall be provided on at least 30% of the east and west above-grade walls and retaining walls from grade level to a height of 20 ft (6 m) above grade, or the top of the exterior wall, whichever is less. Shade coverage shall be calculated at 10 a.m. for the east walls and 3 p.m. for the west walls on the summer solstice.b.Where shading is provided by vegetation, such vegetation shall be existing trees and vegetation or new bio-diverse plantings of native plants and adapted plants. Such planting shall occur prior to the final approval by the AHJ or in accordance with a contract established to require planting no later than 12 months after the final approval by the AHJ so as to provide the required shade no later than ten years after the final approval. Vegetation shall be appropriately sized, selected, planted, and maintained so that it does not interfere with overhead or underground utilities. Trees shall be placed a minimum of 5 ft (1.5 m) from and within 50 ft (15 m) of the building or retaining wall.Exceptions:1.The requirements of this section are satisfied if 75% or more of the opaque wall surfaces on the east and west have a minimum SRI of 29, or as recorded by AHJ. Each wall is allowed to be considered separately for this exception.Walls are a jurisdictional option for mitigation of heat island effect. Vertical wall surfaces also contribute to heat island effect. Therefore, above-grade walls and retaining walls shall be shaded or made of materials with a minimum SRI of 29 as described in Exception 1. Where calculations are needed to show compliance with the requirements listed below, up to a 45- degree building rotation to the nearest cardinal orientation is allowed. Walls shall be shaded using one or more of the following: shade-providing plants, structures, existing buildings, permanent building projections, on-site renewable energy systems, or hillsides.Shading is required on at least 30 percent of east and west walls from grade level up to the lesser of 20 feet (6 m) above grade or the top of the wall. Shading provided by vegetation shall occur within 10 years. Either the trees and vegetation shall be planted or a contract shall be in place for the plantings before final approval of the project by the AHJ. The contract shall require that the plantings will be in place within 12 months after the final approval by the AHJ.Unlike the arithmetic mean used to calculate shade coverage in Section 501.3.2.1 (§ 5.3.2.1), the shade coverage shall be calculated for east walls at 10 a.m. and for west walls at 3 p.m. solar time on the summer solstice (June 21 in the northern hemisphere and December 21 in the southern hemisphere). Vegetation used for shading shall be either existing trees and vegetation, new biodiverse plantings of native plants and adapted plants, or both. The vegetation shall be appropriately selected, sized, located, and maintained so that it does not interfere with overhead or underground utilities.Trees shall be located between 5 feet (1.5 m) and 50 feet (15 m) from the building or retaining wall (see Figure 5-I).Note that if local codes or ordinances require a further distance, then 5 feet (1.5 m) is only a minimum.Vegetation selected for shading depends on the climate zone and microclimate in which the building project is located. For example, in colder climate zones dominated by the need for heating rather than the need for cooling, deciduous vegetation allows the incident solar radiation to reach the building envelope during winter months, which lessens the impact of winter shade on heating loads.
501.3.5.3 (5.3.5.3) Roofs.This section applies to the building and covered parking roof surfaces for building projects in all Climate Zones of Pakistan. A minimum of 75% of the roof surface area be covered with products that have a minimum solar reflectance index approved for roofs by the competent AHJ. The area occupied by one or more of the following shall be excluded from the calculation to assess the roof surface area required to comply with this Section:a.Roof penetrations and associated equipment.b.On-site renewable energy systems, including photovoltaic, solar thermal energy collectors, and required access around the panels or collectors.c.Roof decks and rooftop walkways.d.Vegetated terrace and roofing systems used to shade or cover parking.e.Existing buildings undergoing alteration, repair, relocation, or a change in occupancy.
Figure 5-HTypical vegetated roof.Source: LEED Reference Guide for Green Building Design and Construction, 2009 Edition
Figure 5-ITree-to-wall distance. [Note 5 feet (1.5 m) is a minimum.]For purposes of this section, “roof surface” includes all roof area not used for roof penetrations and associated equipment; on-site renewable energy systems, such as PVs or solar thermal collectors, and associated access; capturing heat for energy technologies; rooftop decks or walkways; or for vegetated roofing systems. For building projects in Climate Zones 0, 1, 2, 3, 4A, and 4B (see Figure 5-H), at least 75 percent of the roof surface of buildings and covered parking areas shall be covered with products that comply with the following:a.The 3-year-aged SRI shall be at least 64 for a low-sloped roof (a slope less than or equal to 2:12).b.The 3-year-aged SRI shall be at least 25 for a steep-sloped roof (a slope of more than 2:12).Table 5-A provides a summary of SRI requirements for roof slopes.Many product types meet the minimum SRI requirements for roofing. These products may include white thermoplastic or PVC membranes, white metal roofing for low-sloped roofs, and selected roofing shingles for steep-sloped roofs. It is important to confirm a product’s SRI with the product manufacturer, as SRI varies among manufacturers. Three-year-aged solar reflectance and thermal emittance values are measured in accordance with the Cool Roof Rating Council (CRRC) S100 standard and certified by the manufacturer. Refer to Section 501.3.5.4 (§ 5.3.5.4) for more information on SRI.A large database of roofing products and their corresponding SRI values is maintained by the CRRC’s Rated Products Directory. In calculating the roof surface area required for compliance, exclude areas for the purposes listed below:•Roof penetrations and associated equipment, such as heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning (HVAC) equipment, skylights, and other items that physically penetrate the roof.•On-site renewable energy systems (e.g., PVs and/or solar thermal collectors, including the space needed between rows).•Portions of the roof that are used to capture heat from building energy technologies.•Rooftop decks or walkways.•Vegetated (green) roofing systems [See Figure 5-J and Section 501.3.5.5 (§ 5.3.5.5)].More information on cool roofs may be found on the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (LBNL) website.
Table 5-A Roof types.
Roof Type Pitch SRI
Low-sloped roof ≤ 2:12 64
Steep-sloped roof > 2:12 25
Source: LEED Reference Guide for Green Building Design and Construction, 2009 Edition.
Figure 5-JTypical vegetated roof.Source: LEED Reference Guide for Green Building Design and Construction, 2009 Edition
501.3.5.4 (5.3.5.4) Solar reflectance index (SRI).The SRI shall be calculated for medium-speed wind conditions using a convection coefficient, as specified by AHJ, subject to the condition, that the values for solar reflectance and thermal emittance shall be determined and certified by an independent Third Party.The definition of SRI provides information on the difference between SRI (which takes into account solar reflectance and thermal emittance) and solar reflectance alone. SRI varies from 0 for a standard black surface to 100 for a standard white surface, while solar reflectance is 0 for a nonreflective surface, 0.05 for a standard black surface, 0.80 for a standard white surface, and 1.0 for a highly reflective surface. Table 5-B provides SRI values of various commonly used paving products.There are two aspects to consider when analyzing incoming solar energy on the heat island effect: reflectance and thermal emittance. First, for opaque materials, the incoming solar energy is either absorbed or reflected. Solar reflectance, sometimes called albedo, is the percentage of incoming solar energy reflected by a surface. The sum of solar reflectance plus solar absorptance equals 1.0 for opaque materials. Generally, materials that appear to be light-colored have a higher solar reflectance and SRI than those that appear to be dark. This is not always the case, however, because the visible spectrum is only a portion of the solar spectrum. Solar energy is 5 percent ultraviolet (UV) rays (responsible for sunburn), 4 percent visible light, and 52 percent infrared energy (which is felt as heat). Materials can have different absorptance (and emittance) values at different wavelengths; their absorptance (or emittance) values in the visible part of the spectrum are not necessarily the same as in the UV or infrared wavelengths.Table 5-B
Paving Materials’ SRIsMaterialEmittanceReflectanceSRITypical new gray concrete0.90.3538Typical weathered∗ gray concrete0.90.2019Typical new white concrete0.90.7086Typical weathered∗ white concrete0.90.4045New asphalt0.90.050Weathered asphalt0.90.106Source: LEED Reference Guide for Green Building Design and Construction, 2009 Edition∗ Reflectance of surfaces can be maintained with cleaning. Typical pressure washing of cementitious materials can restore reflectance close to the original values. Weathered values are based on no cleaning.The second consideration when analyzing a material’s impact on heat island effect is how the material loses the absorbed solar energy. This can be done by emitting thermal radiation or by convection of heat to the air. The amount of heat transfer by radiation depends on thermal emittance, which is a surface property of a material that governs the emission of thermal radiation relative to that emitted by a blackbody, at the same surface temperature and under the same conditions. Its value can range between 0 (no emittance at absolute zero) and 1 (ideal maximum of a blackbody). Because building walls and roofs are at a relatively low temperature, these materials will radiate energy in the infrared waveband (2–15 μm), which is not visible to human eyes. Thus, the thermal emittance of a material is measured in the infrared wavelengths according to the testing methods specified below. Most nonmetallic opaque materials encountered in the built environment have a thermal emittance between 0.85 and 0.95 at most temperatures. Highly polished aluminum has an emittance less than 1.1. A black nonmetallic surface has an emittance greater than 0.9.SRI considers thermal emittance as well as solar reflectance, providing for an accurate description of the various phenomena that influence the heat island effect.SRI shall be calculated in compliance with ASTM E1980 for medium-speed wind conditions using a convection coefficient of 2.1 Btu/h·ft2·°F (11.9 W/m2·°C) as follows:For nonroofing materials, SRI shall be based on thermal emittance and solar reflectance values. Thermal emittance (also known as emissivity) is measured according to ASTM E408 or ASTM C1371, and solar reflectance is measured according to ASTM E1918 or ASTM C1549. Note that these solar reflectance and thermal emittance test methods may differ from those in LEED. The values for solar reflectance and thermal emittance shall be determined and certified by an independent third party.For roofing products, SRI values shall be based on 3-year-aged solar reflectance and thermal emittance, as measured in accordance with the CRRC-S100 standard, and shall be certified by the manufacturer. Using highly reflective roofing materials and/or vegetated roofs can decrease cooling loads and help projects with Section 7, “Energy Efficiency.”Examples of helpful SRI calculators can be found on the LBNL website. The LBNL calculator uses the convection coefficient required by the GBCP-2023 of 2.1 Btu/h·ft2·°F (11.9 W/m2·°C).
501.3.5.5 (5.3.5.5) Vegetated terrace and roofing systems. Vegetated terrace and roofing systems, where provided in accordance with Section 501.3.5.3 (5.3.5.3), shall comply with the following:a.All plantings shall be capable of withstanding the microclimate conditions of the vegetated area, including but not limited to wind, precipitation, and temperature. Plants shall be selected and placed to provide foliage coverage of not less than 50% of designed area of vegetation based on the anticipated plant growth within two years of the issuance of the final certificate of occupancy. Construction documents shall be submitted that show the planting location and anticipated two-year foliage coverage of the plantings. Duplicate coverage shall not be credited where multiple plants cover the same area. Invasive plants shall not be planted.b.The growing medium shall be designed for the physical conditions and local climate to support the plants selected. The planting design shall include measures to protect the growing medium until the plants are established. The maximum wet weight and water-holding capacity of a growing medium shall be approved from AHJ.c.Plantings shall be capable of maintaining the function of the vegetated roof or terrace as required by Section 1001.9.1 (10.9.1).d.Irrigation of the vegetated roofs and terraces shall comply with Section 601.3.2.4 (6.3.2.4).e.Installation of plantings shall be in accordance with the roof-covering manufacturer’s installation instructions.A vegetated roof or terrace supports the growth of plants installed over conditioned or non-conditioned spaces with an assembly of waterproofing, drainage, root barrier, growing medium and vegetation (See Figure 5-J). Benefits include mitigation of heat island effect, reduced stormwater run-off, air quality improvements and climate change mitigation due to absorption of greenhouse gases. However, this must be balanced with the fact that a vegetated roof increases structural loading and waterproofing requirements. Whether or not a vegetated roof is appropriate for a given site depends on multiple variables, including geographic location, annual precipitation, seasonal temperatures, and irrigation demand.The GBCP-2023 requires vegetated roofs and terraces to comply with the following:a.All plantings shall be capable of withstanding the microclimate conditions of the vegetated area, including but not limited to wind, precipitation, and temperature. Plants shall be selected and placed to provide foliage coverage of not less than 50 percent of designed area of vegetation based on the anticipated plant growth within 2 years of the issuance of the final certificate of occupancy. Construction documents shall be submitted that show the planting location and anticipated 2-year foliage coverage of the plantings. Duplicate coverage shall not be credited where multiple plants cover the same area. Invasive plants shall not be planted.b.The growing medium shall be designed for the physical conditions and local climate to support the plants selected. The planting design shall include measures to protect the growing medium until the plants are established. The maximum wet weight and water-holding capacity of a growing medium shall be determined in accordance with ASTM E2399.c.Nonvegetated clearances and borders shall be provided in accordance with Section 317 of the International Fire Code®.d.Plantings shall be capable of maintaining the function of the vegetated roof or terrace as required by Section 1001.9.1 (§ 10.9.1).e.Irrigation of the vegetated roofs and terraces shall comply with Section 601.3.2.4 (§ 6.3.2.4).f.Installation of plantings shall be in accordance with the roof-covering manufacturer’s installation instructions.
501.3.5 (5.3.5.6)
Building envelope requirements. The exterior building envelope buildings shall be on a prescriptive basis and in accordance with AHJ described compliance path, and comply with the following:a.Opaque portions of the building envelope shall comply with the specific insulation requirements and the thermal requirements of the local solar reflectance value-based method; or the construction material performance standards as prescribed by AHJ.b.Provision or installation of the windows and air-ventilators in building envelope shall be as per the building plans.c.Where the buildings have a vertical fenestration area or skylight area, the building thermal envelope shall comply with the performance standards as referred to by AHJ.The Illuminating Engineering Society (IES) has, along with other organizations, developed a zoned approach to establishing boundaries and maximum lighting allowances for multiple development scenarios. These zones are included in Standard 90.1 and are used to establish the maximum allowable exterior lighting power based on the development density adjacent to the project site. Table 5-C is a reproduction of Standard 90.1-2019, Table 9.4.2-1, which describes the characteristics of each lighting zone (LZ) used by this code.For additional resources on lighting design for exterior environments, the IES RP-33 guideline provides an overview of best practices for exterior lighting, as well as more detail about the zoned approach for exterior lighting.Table 5-C
Exterior Lighting Zones (Source: Standard 90.1-2019, Table 9.4.2-1)LZDescription0Undeveloped areas within national parks, state parks, forest land, rural areas, and other undeveloped areas as defined by the AHJ.1Developed areas of National Parks, State Parks, Forest Land, and Rural areas2Areas predominantly consisting of residential zoning, neighborhood business districts, light industrial with limited nighttime use, and residential mixed-use areas3All other areas4High-activity commercial districts in major metropolitan areas as designated by the local jurisdiction
501.3.6 (5.3.6) [JO] Reduction of light pollution.“Light pollution” is a term used to describe a condition that occurs in nighttime environments whereby excessive artificial lighting, typically emanating from the built environment, creates unnecessary glare. This condition typically leads to negative environmental impacts, which may include disruption to nocturnal habitats, reduced visual access to night skies, and excessive consumption of electricity. Additionally, excessive or improperly shielded lighting can travel beyond building property lines, disrupting neighboring environments. The requirements in this section are designed to reduce the harmful impacts of light pollution by addressing exterior lighting.
501.3.6.1 (5.3.6.1) Backlight, uplight, and glare (BUG) ratings.Exterior luminaire backlight, uplight, and glare (BUG) ratings shall be as approved by AHJ. All exterior lighting shall comply with items (a) through (c).a.Backlight. Building-mounted exterior lighting with backlight oriented towards the building is not required (NR) to have a maximum backlight rating. All other exterior lighting not building-mounted and building-mounted where backlight is not oriented towards the building shall have a backlight rating that is no greater than the maximum backlighting rating value in Table 501.3.6.1 (5.3.6.1) that is a function of the horizontal distance between the luminaire and closest property line in multiples of luminaire mounting height and the lighting zone. Luminaires not building mounted and located within two (2) mounting heights of the nearest property line shall be oriented so the backlight portion of light output is oriented perpendicular toward the closest property line.b.Uplight. Exterior luminaires shall have an uplight rating that is no greater than the maximum uplight rating value in Table 501.3.6.1 (5.3.6.1) for the lighting zone.c.Glare. Building-mounted exterior lighting with forward light oriented toward the building is not required (NR) to have a maximum glare rating. All other building-mounted lighting shall have a glare rating that is no greater than the maximum glare rating value in Table 501.3.6.1 (5.3.6.1) as a function of the horizontal distance between the luminaire and closest property line in multiples of luminaire mounting height and the lighting zone. All exterior lighting not building mounted shall have a glare rating that is no greater than the maximum glare rating value in Table 501.3.6.1 (5.3.6.1) for the lighting zone.Exceptions:1.Specialized signal, directional, and marker lighting associated with transportation.2.Advertising signage or directional signage. 3.Lighting integral to equipment or instrumentation and installed by its manufacturer. 4.Lighting for theatrical purposes, including performance, stage, film production, and video production. 5.Lighting for athletic playing areas.6.Lighting that is in use for no more than 60 continuous days and is not reinstalled any sooner than 60 days after being uninstalled.7.Lighting for industrial production, material handling, transportation sites, and associated storage areas.8.Theme elements in theme/amusement parks.9.Roadway lighting required by governmental authorities. 10.Lighting classified for and used in hazardous locations as specified by AHJ.11.Lighting for swimming pools and water features.The GBCP-2023 provides maximum allowances for backlight, uplight, and glare ratings using the luminaire classification system determined by IES TM-15, Luminaire Classification System for Outdoor Luminaires + Addendum A. IES TM-15 Addendum A defines lumen distribution zones related to light pollution and provides specific backlight, uplight, and glare (BUG) ratings. The GBCP-2023 establishes maximum BUG ratings based on the rating procedure in the Model Lighting Ordinance (MLO) developed jointly by IES and the International Dark Sky Association. A luminaire may be given a BUG rating by its manufacturer. A BUG rating comprises three values, one for each component: backlight, uplight, and glare. The BUG value for each component is based on the lumens measured at multiple specific positions relative to the luminaire (see Figure 5-K).Figure 5-KBUG diagram.Source: Model Lighting Ordinance (MLO) with User’s Guide(Illuminating Engineering Society/International Dark Sky Association)BacklightBuilding-mounted exterior lighting with backlight oriented towards the building is not required to have a maximum backlight rating. All other exterior lighting either not building mounted or building mounted where backlight is not oriented towards the building, shall have a backlight rating that is no greater than the maximum backlighting rating value in Table 501.3.6.1 (§5.3.6.1) that is a function of the horizontal distance between the luminaire and closest property line and the lighting zone. Luminaires not building mounted and located within two (2) mounting heights of the nearest property line shall be oriented so the backlight portion of light output is oriented perpendicular toward the closest property line. The mounting height of a luminaire shall be determined by measuring the distance between the ground and the luminaire. In many circumstances, property lines abut public areas such as walkways, bikeways, plazas, and parking lots. Where the property line abuts a public roadway or public transit corridor, the property line may be considered to be the centerline of the roadway or corridor. If local jurisdictional codes require greater distances from the property line, the distance specified by the local code shall preside.UplightExterior luminaires shall have an uplight rating that is no greater than the maximum uplight rating value in Table 501.3.6.1 (§5.3.6.1) for the lighting zone. Shielding or directional adjustments shall be utilized to ensure the uplight values of each specified exterior luminaire complies with the maximum allowable uplight ratings. Figure 5-L provides an example of a shielded floodlight.Exterior luminaire uplight is permissible in LZs 1 through 4, when the lighting is intended specifically to illuminate structures, building façades, or landscaping. In LZs 1 and 2, the lighting power densities of the uplighting shall not exceed 50 percent of the respective lighting power allowance provided in Standard 90.1-2019, Table 9.42-2.Building-mounted exterior lighting with forward light oriented toward the building is not required to have a maximum glare rating. All other building-mounted lighting shall have a glare rating that is no greater than the maximum glare rating value in Table 501.3.6.1 (§5.3.6.1) as a function of the horizontal distance between the luminaire and closest property line and the lighting zone. All exterior lighting not building mounted shall have a glare rating that is no greater than the maximum glare rating value in Table 501.3.6.1 (§5.3.6.1) in accordance with the lighting zone.Exceptions apply to exterior lighting required for safety, signage and other specific lighting applications including theatrical performances, athletic playing fields, and theme/amusement parks.Figure 5-LShielded floodlight.
TABLE 501.3.6.1 (TABLE 5.3.6.1)MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE BACKLIGHT, UPLIGHT, AND GLARE (BUG) RATINGS a, b, c, d
LIGHTING ZONE LZ0 LZ1 LZ2 LZ3 LZ4
Allowed Backlight Rating—Building Mounted and Backlight Oriented Towards Buildinge NR NR NR NR NR
Allowed Backlight Rating—All Other Luminaires
> 2 mounting heights from property line B1 B3 B4 B5 B5
> 1 to 2 mounting heights from property line B1 B2 B3 B4 B4
0.5 to 1 mounting height to property line B0 B1 B2 B3 B3
< 0.5 mounting height to property line B0 B0 B0 B1 B2
Allowed Uplight Rating—All Exterior Lighting U0 U1 U2 U3 U4
Allowed Glare Rating—Building-Mounted and Forward Light Oriented Towards Buildinge NR NR NR NR NR
Allowed Glare Rating—All Other Building-Mounted Lighting
> 2 mounting heights from property line G0 G1 G2 G3 G4
> 1 to 2 mounting heights from property line G0 G0 G1 G1 G2
0.5 to 1 mounting height to property line G0 G0 G0 G1 G1
< 0.5 mounting height to property line G0 G0 G0 G0 G1
Allowed Glare Rating—All Other Luminaires G0 G1 G2 G3 G4
a. Except where installed on a building surface, luminaires that are located at a distance of two times the mounting height of the luminaire or less from a property line shall have the backlight of the luminaire aimed toward and perpendicular to the nearest property line. Backlight is that part of the luminaire’s lumen output that was used to determine the backlight rating in its final angularposition. b. For property lines that abut public walkways, bikeways, plazas, and parking lots, the property line may be considered to be 1.5 m beyond the actual property line for the purpose of determining compliance with this section. For property lines that abut public roadways and public transit corridors, the property line may be considered to be the centerline of the public roadway or public transit corridor for the purpose of determining compliance with this section.c. If the luminaire is installed in other than the intended manner, or is an adjustable luminaire for which the aiming is specified, the rating shall be determined by the actual photometric geometry in the aimedorientation.d. Backlight, uplight, and glare ratings are defined based on specific lumen limits per IES TM-15 Addendum A.e. NR = Not Required.Source: LEED Reference Guide for Green Building Design and Construction, 2009 Edition
501.3.7 (5.3.7)
Mitigation of transportation impacts. In addition to the vehicular roads or driveways and adequate provision for car parking, the following shall be provided in building projects.This section establishes requirements to promote alternatives to conventional passenger vehicles. These requirements provide necessary access for low-impact mobility, including walking, bicycling, public transportation, and electric vehicle charging infrastructure.
501.3.7.1 (5.3.7.1)
Pedestrian and bicycle connectivity.Each primary building entrance shall be provided with a pedestrian walkway that leads to either a public way or transit stop. Note that parking lots or parking garages are not public ways. Public ways are sidewalks, streets, alleys, transit right of ways, or other parcels of land open to the outdoors dedicated to public use that have a clear width and height of not less than 10 feet (3 m). In addition, a public-use walkway is required along the length of public-way frontage of the project site. Many conventional buildings do not satisfy this requirement. Although many buildings include paved pedestrian walkways at the primary entrance of the building, these walkways often do not provide an uninterrupted pedestrian walkway to a public way or transit stop. In these situations, it is common for pedestrians to use parking lots as a path to a public way. Where this occurs, the walkway shall not be less than 5 feet (1.5 mm) in width and shall be clearly delineated. This delineation is often achieved by paving the walkway with a different material than the parking lot or by separating the walkway from the parking lot by a curb. Delineation discourages vehicles from parking on or blocking the walkway and maintains safety. Where the walkway crosses drive isles, best practice would suggest appropriate traffic signage be placed to alert and instruct drivers. On-site bicycle paths are required to connect on-site bicycle parking areas to existing or planned adjacent off-site public use bicycle paths.
501.3.7.1.1 (5.3.7.1.1)
Pedestrian walkways.Each primary building entrance shall be provided with a pedestrian walkway that extends to either a public way or a transit stop. Walkways shall not be less than 5 ft (1.5 m) in width and shall be clearly delineated.A public-use walkway shall be provided along the length of the adjoining public-way frontage of the building project site, and such walkways shall connect to adjacent or nearest public-use walkways.
501.3.7.1.2 (5.3.7.1.2)
Bicycle and motorcycle paths.On-site bicycle and motorcycle paths shall be designed to connect bicycle parking areas to existing and planned off-site bicycle paths adjacent to the building project.
501.3.7.2 (5.3.7.2)
Bicycle and motorcycle parking.As a jurisdictional option [JO] horizontal bicycle parking racks in Section 501.3.7.2.3 (§5.3.7.2.3) allow bicycles to be rolled into the parking space at ground level with both wheels on the ground. Each of these spaces shall be at least 18 inches wide by 72 inches deep (305 × 1829 mm). The parking rack itself shall provide no less than two points of contact between the bicycle frame and rack. For racks that have vertical space dividers, each divider (typically a round tube) shall be taller than the top tube of a typical bicycle frame. When a bicycle is pulled forward into a space, this simultaneously provides contact between the divider and the bicycle top frame and the divider and the bicycle lower frame. Alternatively, if the bicycle were backed into the space, this same divider would provide a contact patch between the bicycle seat stay and the divider and the bicycle chain stay and the divider. Adjacent to the bicycle rack, the access to the rack shall provide a clear 36-inchwide (914 mm) pathway for entering and exiting the rack.• The ability to lock provisions in Section 501.3.7.2.4 (§ 5.3.7.2.4) requires two points of contact between the rack and bicycle frame for secure contact between the bicycle and the rack to not only support the bicycle but also to place a lock. However, the rack shall also be constructed in a manner that deters bicycle theft. Racks that include bolted components or flimsy construction do not provide secure parking for riders and they will likely secure their bicycles to other outdoor features that provide more security. Although bicycle locks come in a variety of shapes and sizes, solid metal U-shaped shackle locks (see Figure 5-M) are prevalent for their simplistic design and level of security. The bicycle racks used shall be compatible with standard U-shaped shackle bicycle locks and allow their use on the front or rear of a bicycle.• The security and visibility provisions of Section 501.3.7.2.5 (§5.3.7.2.5) is also a jurisdictional option [JO]. It requiresall bicycle parking spaces to comply with one of the following:• Located within sight of the building entrances they serve;• Secured in a locker, cage, or room;• Bicycle valet service provided; or• Monitored by security cameras.Where bicycle parking is not located within sight of the building entrance, signage shall be provided to identify the location of the bicycle parking.The building project construction documents shall include all necessary information for installation of bicycle parking in accordance with the provisions of Section 501.3.7.2 (§ 5.3.7.2). Thus, the building project plans shall designate the bicycle parking location and quantity of spaces. The clear area for the spaces shall be shown and the key features of the bicycle racks shall be specified.
501.3.7.2.1 (5.3.7.2.1)
Minimum number of spaces. Bicycle and motorcycle parking spaces shall be provided for at least 5% of the occupant load of each building but not less than two parking spaces. Occupants who are non-ambulatory, under restraint, or under custodial care need not be included in the total occupant load for the building. Building projects with dwelling units shall be provided with at least 0.5 parking spaces per bedroom for each building but not less than two parking spaces.Exceptions:1. Building projects with dwelling units that provide each unit with a private garage or private, locked storage space of sufficient size to store a bicycle.2. The number of bicycle and motorcycle parking spaces shall be allowed to be reduced where a transportation plan, prepared by a registered design professional, that demonstrates the likelihood that building occupants will use public transportation and/or walk to the building project site has been approved. Each building shall have bicycle parking spaces for not less than 5 percent of its occupant load, where the occupant load is the number of people for which the means of egress has been designed. For buildings that include residential dwelling units, there shall be 0.5 spaces per bedroom but not less than 2 spaces total. For applications where each dwelling unit has a dedicated private garage or lockable storage space sufficient for a bicycle, bicycle parking spaces for these units are not required. Buildings often include a mix of occupancies and uses. For example, a 15-floor building comprising primarily of residential dwelling units may include commercial uses on the first three floors with the first floor being split between townhomes and commercial. Each townhome has a private garage and therefore does not require a bicycle parking space. The commercial portion of the building is required to have bicycle parking spaces for at least 5 percent of the occupant load (300 people in this example). The upper-level multifamily residential portion of the building shall have 0.5 bicycle parking spaces per bedroom provided, of which there are 240. The total number of spaces required for this building is the sum of the spaces required for each space type. For this example, no spaces are required for the town homes as each unit has a private garage, 15 spaces are required for the commercial space, and 120 spaces are required for the upper-level dwelling units. The total bicycle parking spaces required for this building is 135.When approved by the AHJ, the number of required bicycle parking spaces can be reduced for buildings where a transportation plan (prepared by a design professional) provides significant opportunity for occupants to use alternative modes of transportation besides passenger vehicles.
501.3.7.2.2 (5.3.7.2.2)
[JO] Location.Not fewer than two bicycle or motorcycles parking spaces shall be located within 50 ft (15.2 m) of, and be visible from, the building entrance being served. All other bicycle parking spaces shall be located inside the building, or the nearest point of the bicycle parking areas shall be within 50 ft (15.2 m) of the building entrance being served. Bicycle and motorcycle parking shall not obstruct pedestrian access to the building.The location of bicycle parking spaces under Section 501.3.7.2.2 (§ 5.3.7.2.2) requires all buildings as a jurisdictional option [JO] to have not less than two bicycle parking spaces located within 50 feet (15.2 m) of and visible from the building entrance. The remainder of the required bicycle parking spaces shall be located in or outside the building. When locating the remainder of the required bicycle parking spaces outside the building, the closest parking space in the parking area shall not be further than 50 feet (15.2 m) from the building entrance that the parking area serves. The bicycle parking area shall not encroach on the walkway serving the building entrance, blocking pedestrian access. Alternatively, the remainder of the required bicycle parking spaces may be located inside the building. Consideration should be given to the total amount of space the bicycles will occupy when the bicycle parking spaces are filled.
501.3.7.2.5 (5.3.7.2.3)
[JO] Security and visibility. All bicycle and motorcycle parking spaces shall be visible from the entrance being served; secured in a locker, cage, or room; or provided with valet service or security cameras. Signage shall be provided to identify parking that is not visible from the building entrance.
501.3.7.2.6 (5.3.7.2.4)
Documentation. Construction documents shall include plans and details showing compliance with Sections 501.3.7.2.1 (5.3.7.2.1) through 501.3.7.2.5 (5.3.7.2.3).
Figure 5-M U-shaped shackle lock example use.
501.3.8 (5.3.8)
Building site waste management.
501.3.8.1 (5.3.8.1)
Building site waste management plan.A building site waste management plan shall be developed and implemented for excavated soil, rock, and land-clearing debris. Land-clearing debris is limited to stumps and vegetation. Diverted land-clearing debris and removed rock and soil shall not be sent to sites where development activity is prohibited by Section 501.3.1.2 (5.3.1.2) or to green fields other than those being used for agricultural purposes or being developed as part of a building project.Not less than 90% [JO] of the land-clearing debris, excluding invasive plant materials, shall be diverted from disposal in landfills and incinerators other than waste-to-energy systems with an energy-recovery efficiency rate higher than 60%. Land-clearing debris calculations shall be based on either weight or volume but not both. Receipts or other documentation related to diversion shall be maintained through the course of construction.The plan shall address all of the following:a. Land-clearing debris, rock, and soil to be diverted from disposal by composting, recycling, or reuse.b. Waste materials that will be diverted on-site.c. The locations to which waste materials will be diverted off-site.d. Soils to be stockpiled for future use at any location.e. Woody waste to be used as fuel.f. The destruction and disposal of invasive plant materials.g. The methods of removal of any contaminated soils.h. The treatment of vegetation to comply with the rules of government-designated quarantine zones for invasive insect species. Landfills are burdened with waste generated from construction sites and other industrial or consumer-related sources. This waste and the manner in which it is processed has direct impacts associated with land use, air and water quality. This section contains specific recycling and reuse provisions designed to minimize site waste while maximizing diversion of this waste from landfills. Section 901.3.1 (§ 9.3.1) addresses building-related construction waste.Section 501.3.8.1 (§ 5.3.8.1) requires not less than 90 or 75 or 50 percent of land-clearing debris depending on the jurisdictional option, excluding invasive plant materials, to be diverted from disposal in landfills and incinerators other than wasteto-energy systems with an energy-recovery efficiency rate higher than 60 percent. Land-clearing debris calculations can be based on either weight or volume but not both. Receipts or other documentation related to diversion are required to be maintained through the course of construction.A building site waste management plan is required to be developed that includes all of the following:a. Land-clearing debris, rock, and soil to be diverted from disposal by composting, recycling, or reuse. Note that landclearing debris is limited to stumps and vegetation.b. Waste materials that will be diverted on-site.c. The locations to which waste materials will be diverted off-site. Note that diverted land-clearing debris and removed rock and soil shall not be sent to sites where development activity is prohibited by Section 501.3.1.2 (§ 5.3.1.2) or to greenfields other than those being used for agricultural purposes or being developed as part of a building project.d. Soils to be stockpiled for future use at any location.e. Woody waste to be used as fuel.f. The destruction and disposal of invasive plant materials.g. The methods of removal of any contaminated soils.h. The treatment of vegetation to comply with the rules of government-designated quarantine zones for invasive insect species.
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
•
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.