======================================================================
Chapter 2 Reserved
======================================================================

Chapter 1 Scope And Administration - Green Building Code of Pakistan with Commentary
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2023
Green Building Code of Pakistan with Commentary
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2023 Green Building Code of Pakistan with Commentary 2021 Building Code of Pakistan 2024 International Energy Conservation Code and ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1-2022 (IECC) 2024 International Green Construction Code Code (IgCC) 2024 International Zoning Code (IZC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
Pakistan
/
2023 Green Building Code of Pakistan with Commentary
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
2023 Green Building Code of Pakistan with Commentary
favorite_border
2021 IGCC
Amended
Version:
Dec 2024
Contents
Notes
Overview
Copyright
Preface
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Part 1—Scope and Application Part 1
Part 2—Administration and Enforcement Part 2
Chapter 2 Reserved
Chapter 3 Definitions, Abbreviations and Acronyms
Chapter 4 Reserved
Chapter 5 Site Sustainability
Chapter 6 Water Use Efficiency
Chapter 7 Energy Efficiency
Chapter 8 Indoor Environmental Quality (Ieq)
Chapter 9 Materials and Resources
Chapter 10 Construction and Plans for Operation
Informative Appendix a Normative References
Informative Appendix B Prescriptive Equipment Efficiency Tables for the Alternate Reduced Renewables and Increased Equipment Efficiency Approach in Section 701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1)
Informative Appendix C Performance Option for Energy Efficiency
Informative Appendix D Building Concentrations
Informative Appendix E Building Envelope Tables
Informative Appendix F Integrated Design
Informative Appendix G Informative References
Informative Appendix H Option for Energy Efficiency Using the IECC Prescriptive Compliance Path
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
CHAPTER
1 SCOPE AND ADMINISTRATION
PART 1—SCOPE AND APPLICATION
SECTION
101 SCOPE AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
101.1
Title. These regulations shall be known as the Green Building Code of Pakistan (GBCP-2023), hereinafter referred to as “this code.”The purpose of this section is to identify the adopted regulations.
101.2
(2.3) General. This code is intended to provide minimum requirements to be used in conjunction with the other codes and standards adopted by the Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ). The requirements in this code shall not be used to circumvent any applicable safety, health or environmental requirements.The Green Building Code of Pakistan (GBCP-2023), provides minimum requirements for high-performance green buildings and building systems, addressing siting, design, construction and plans for operation. The code is written in building code language and is intended for adoption throughout Pakistan. The code specifies reasonable design, construction and operational practices and technologies that minimize water, energy and materials consumption without sacrificing the comfort or productivity of the occupants.The code strives to balance these issues along with environmental, resource and community concerns, and the need for current and future developments. The code is broad in scope and the requirements are appropriate for a wide range of building types, climate zones and for a variety of site conditions. When designing a specific building on a specific site for a specific climate, design issues will undoubtedly have to be addressed that go beyond those considered in developing the standard.The GBCP-2023 shall not be used to circumvent any safety, health, or environmental requirements of local building codes. If a building project’s local jurisdiction has more stringent requirements than the GBCP-2023, the more stringent requirements apply, which do not prevent the application of the requirements of the GBCP-2023. If there is a conflict between the requirements of the GBCP-2023 and safety, health, or environmental codes, the local code requirements should apply. Alternatively, the project team can ask for interpretations from the local authority having jurisdiction (AHJ).
101.3
Scope. The provisions of this code shall apply to the design, construction, addition, alteration, equipment, change of occupancy, relocation, replacement, demolition and removal of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected or attached to such buildings or structures and to the building site on which the building is located. Occupancy classifications shall be determined in accordance with the Building Code of Pakistan-2021.The scope of code becomes applicable when a new building is constructed, an existing building is modified, or an existing structure becomes unsafe.Occupancy classifications and what qualifies as a temporary structure must be determined in accordance with the requirements of the Building Code of Pakistan-2021.
101.3.1 (2.2)
Applicability. The provisions of this code do not apply to the following:1. Single-family dwellings.2. Multiple-family dwellings of three stories or fewer above grade.3. Manufactured houses (mobile homes).4. Manufactured houses (modular).5. Building projects that use none of the following:1. Electricity.2. Fossil fuels.3. Water.The code is applicable to new buildings, relocated buildings and temporary structures, alterations, additions, and new systems to existing buildings, including new systems and equipment. This section identifies projects that are not covered by the GBCP-2023 to clearly delineate the projects that are exempted by this code. However, they may be covered by other codes or ordinances.Building Projects not CoveredThe GBCP-2023 excludes low-rise residential buildings, defined as• single-family houses, or• multifamily structures of three stories or fewer above grade, or• manufactured houses (mobile homes and modular).Buildings that do not use electricity, fossil fuels, or water.
101.4 (1.1)
Intent.The intent of this code is to provide minimum requirements for the siting, design, construction and plans for operation of high-performance green buildings to: reduce emissions from buildings and building systems; enhance building occupant health and comfort; conserve water resources; protect local biodiversity and ecosystem services; promote sustainable and regenerative materials cycles; enhance building quality; enhance resilience to natural, technological, and human-caused hazards; and support the goal of development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.This chapter addresses how to administer the GBCP-2023 from an enforcement and compliance perspective. Due to the broad scope of the GBCP-2023, specific enforcement programs are best defined at the time of adoption by a jurisdiction. When the GBCP-2023 is adopted as a code, the adopting jurisdiction may choose to use and/or supplement the compliance forms provided for reference online. As a result, users should always check with the adopting jurisdiction to determine specific requirements for demonstrating compliance with the GBCP-2023.To demonstrate compliance with the GBCP-2023, projects must comply with the requirements of Chapters 5 through 11. In Chapters 5 through 9, all projects must demonstrate compliance with the mandatory provisions (x.3) as well as either the prescriptive option (x.4) or the performance option (x.5) where offered. Chapters 5, 6, and 10 do not offer either a prescriptive or performance option; therefore, all of the requirements listed are part of the mandatory provisions. Chapter 11 contains the normative references, which is a compiled list of the reference standards that are employed throughout the GBCP-2023. See Figure 1-A for graphical representation of the compliance requirements.For the 2021 GBCP-2023, exceptions were added for jurisdictions that have opted out of provisions listed in Table 101.5.1 or where a jurisdiction has opted for a different building site waste diversion.
101.5 (4.1 & 4.2)
Compliance. Building projects shall comply with this code. Within each of Chapters 5 through 9, building projects shall comply with all mandatory provisions (x.3) and, where offered, either the:1. Prescriptive Option (x.4) or2. Performance Option (x.5).Building projects shall also comply with all provisions of Chapter 10.Exceptions:1. Compliance shall not be required with sections that are listed in Table 101.5.1 where AHJ has opted out by checking “No” in the corresponding cell in the jurisdictional requirement column.2. Where AHJ has indicated a diversion percentage for Section 501.3.8.1 in Table 101.5.1, that percentage shall replace the diversion percentage indicated in Section 501.3.8.1.Figure 1-A Compliance paths for Chapters 5 through 10. (see exceptions)
101.5.1
Jurisdictional options. The jurisdictional options listed in Table 101.5.1 provide AHJ the flexibility to adopt the code in a manner that is best suited to meet their unique environmental and regional goals and needs. The informative symbol [JO] after the section number indicates jurisdictional option provisions.Table 101.5.1 may be used for the code adoption ordinance:1. Where “No” boxes are provided, AHJ checks the box to indicate where that section is not to be enforced as a requirement in the jurisdiction. Where the “No” box is not checked, that section is adopted.2. Where a numerical value is listed to specify the level of performance, AHJ shall indicate the required value to be adopted. Where a numerical value is not indicated, the value in the text is adopted without change.In addition to the jurisdictional options listed in Table 101.5.1, the code also provides for optional jurisdictional adoption of Informative Appendix H, Option for Energy Efficiency Using the IECC Prescriptive Compliance Path, and Informative Appendix M, Option for Residential Compliance Using the National Green Building Standard. Where AHJ adopts Appendix H, compliance with Sections 7.3 and 7.4 of this code shall be as specified in Appendix H.This version of GBCP-2023 identifies “jurisdictional options” for the authority having jurisdiction (AHJ) to review as part of their adoption considerations. The intent is to allow the AHJ to “customize” its code based on the unique needs of their jurisdiction, thus providing more flexibility in the use and application of the code. In GBCP-2023 Section 101.5.1, the AHJ will find the specific directions for use in developing their code adoption of regulations/ byelaws. Table 101.5.1 was added to help identify these options when exercised by the AHJ.This change is intended to increase adoptions of the GBCP-2023 by AHJ to customize the code so that it may be more acceptable to more of the parties affected. The options generally simplify the code for owners, designers, manufacturers, code officials and elected officials by identifying provisions that may not be suitable in all locations and allowing jurisdictions to opt out of them. All other code sections are considered to be core requirements, suitable for all jurisdictions and critically important in order to be considered a green or sustainable building.
TABLE 101.5.1REQUIREMENTS DETERMINED BY THE JURISDICTION
SECTION SECTION TITLE JURISDICTIONAL REQUIREMENT
Chapter 5—Site Sustainability
501.3.5.2 (5.3.5.2) Mitigation of Heat Island Effect—Walls __ No
501.3.6 (5.3.6) Reduction of Light Pollution __ No
501.3.7.2.2 (5.3.7.2.2) Bicycle Parking Location __ No
501.3.7.2.3 (5.3.7.2.3) Bicycle Parking, Horizontal Parking Racks __ No
501.3.7.2.5 (5.3.7.2.5) Bicycle Parking, Security and Visibility __ No
501.3.8.1 (5.3.8.1) Building Site Waste Management—Diversion Percentage __ 75%__ 50%
Chapter 6—Water Use Efficiency
601.3.1.2.1(a,3) [6.3.1.2.1(a,3)] Irrigation System Design, Master Valve __ No
601.3.1.2.1(a,4) [6.3.1.2.1(a,4)] Irrigation System Design, Flow Sensors __ No
601.3.4 (6.3.4) Special Water Features __ No
601.3.5.2 (6.3.5.2) Consumption Data Collection __ No
601.3.5.3 (6.3.5.3) Data Storage and Retrieval __ No
601.3.9 (6.3.9) Dual Water Supply Plumbing __ No
Chapter 7—Energy Efficiency
701.4.2.1 (7.4.2.1) Building Envelope Requirements __ No
701.4.2.3 (7.4.2.3) Single Rafter Roof Insulation __ No
701.4.2.4 (7.4.2.4) High-speed Doors __ No
701.4.2.7 (7.4.2.7) Permanent Projections __ No
701.4.2.10 (7.4.2.10) Orientation __ No
701.4.3.2 (7.4.3.2) Ventilation Controls for Densely Occupied Spaces __ No
701.4.3.4 (7.4.3.4) Economizers __ No
701.4.3.5 (7.4.3.5) Zone Controls __ No
701.4.3.7 (7.4.3.7) Exhaust Air Energy Recovery __ No
701.4.3.8 (7.4.3.8) Kitchen Exhaust Systems __ No
701.4.4.3 (7.4.4.3) Insulation for Spa Pools __ No
701.4.6.3.1 (7.4.6.3.1) Occupancy Sensor Controls in Commercial and Industrial Storage Stacks __ No
701.4.6.3.2 (7.4.6.3.2) Automatic Controls for Egress and Security Lighting __ No
SECTION SECTION TITLE JURISDICTIONAL REQUIREMENT
701.4.7.2 (7.4.7.2) Supermarket Heat Recovery __ No
701.4.7.4 (7.4.7.4) Programmable Thermostats __ No
701.4.7.5 (7.4.7.5) Refrigerated Display Cases __ No
701.5.4 (7.5.4) Energy Simulation Aided Design __ No
Chapter 8—Indoor Environmental Quality
801.3.1.3(b) [8.3.1.3(b)] Outdoor Air Ozone Removal __ No
801.3.1.4.2 (8.3.1.4.2) Exfiltration __ No
801.3.3.4 (8.3.3.4) Interior Sound Reverberation __ No
801.3.9 [8.3.9] Exterior Views __ No
801.4.1.3 (8.4.1.3) Shading for Offices __ No
Chapter 9—Materials and Resources
901.3.1.2 (9.3.1.2) Total Waste __ No
Chapter 10—Construction and Plans for Operation
1001.4.4 (10.4.4) Construction Activity Pollution Prevention: Protection of Occupied Areas __ No
1001.7 (10.7) Postconstruction Building Flush-out and Air Monitoring __ No
1001.10 (10.10) Service Life Plan __ No
1001.11.2 (10.11.2) Transportation Management Plan, Owner-occupied Building Projects or Portions of Building Projects __ No
1001.11.3 (10.11.3) Transportation Management Plan, Building Tenant __ No
101.5.2 (4.3.2) Normative appendices.The normative appendices to this code are considered to be integral parts of the mandatory requirements of this code, which for reasons of convenience are placed apart from all other normative elements.Normative appendices, which occur as Appendices A through D, are a part of the GBCP-2023 and contain detailed reference tables and reference material for use in determining compliance.
101.5.3 (4.3.3)
Informative appendices.The informative appendices to this code, and informative notes located within this code, contain additional information and are not mandatory or part of this code except where specifically adopted by AHJ.Informative note: Informative Appendices H and M are written in mandatory language suitable for inclusion in local codes where specifically adopted by the jurisdiction.Informative appendices are not a part of the GBCP-2023 and are purely informative in nature and may assist the user in determining compliance.
101.5.4 (4.3.4)
Referenced standard reproduction annexes.The referenced standard reproduction annexes contain material that is cited in this code but that is contained in another standard. The referenced standard reproduction annexes are not part of this code but are included in its publication to facilitate its use.These annexes contain material cited in this code but that is contained in another standard. This material is not part of the GBCP-2023 but is included to facilitate its use.
SECTION
102 APPLICABILITY
102.1
Code conflicts.Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a specific requirement of this code, the specific requirement shall be applicable. Where, in any specific case, different sections of the code specify different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most practical requirement to meet the intent of the code shall govern.This section provides guidance to code officials and other code users on the application of the code when different sections of the code specify different materials, methods of construction or other requirements. The importance of this section should not be underestimated. It clarifies how to handle conflicts between general and specific provisions found in the code, and instances where different sections specify different requirements. This section provides a necessary hierarchy for the application of code provisions and clarifies code applications that would otherwise leave persistent questions and lead to debate. The code requires that where different sections of the code apply but contain different requirements, the most restrictive provisions govern; except that where the conflict is between the general requirements of a particular issue and any specific requirements of the same issue, the specific requirements take precedence.
102.2
Other laws.The provisions of this code shall not be deemed to nullify any provisions of local, provincial or federal law.In some cases, other laws enacted by the provincial or federal governments may be applicable to a condition that is also governed by a requirement in the code. In such circumstances, the requirements of the code are in addition to the other law that is still in effect, although the code official may not be responsible for its enforcement.
102.3
Application of references.References to chapter or section numbers, or to provisions not specifically identified by number, shall be construed to refer to such chapter, section or provision of this code.In a situation where the code makes reference to a chapter or section number or another code provision without specifically identifying its location in the code, assume that the referenced section, chapter or provision is in the code and not in a referenced code or standard.
102.4
Referenced codes and standards.Where adopted by AHJ, the following codes shall be considered to be part of the requirements of this code: Building Code of Pakistan-2021, International Code Council Performance Code, Building Code of Pakistan – Energy Provisions 2011, International Existing Building Code, Building Code of Pakistan – Fire Safety Provisions 2016, International Fuel Gas Code, International Mechanical Code, International Plumbing Code, International Property Maintenance Code, and International Residential Code.The GBCP-2023 depends on other codes to ensure that a structurally sound, durable and safe fundamental building is provided. For this reason, Section 102.4 references various other codes. These referenced codes are considered part of the requirements of this code when adopted by the AHJ. Without a structurally sound, durable and safe fundamental building, a building cannot be truly sustainable. For example, if a building is not constructed to resist gravity forces, all of the green practices in the code could be rendered superfluous.Such a building might collapse under its own weight. Gravity forces are not addressed in green and sustainable codes and standards. They are, however, addressed by the Building Code of Pakistan-2021 and the International Residential Code® (IRC®) and the standards referenced therein.Thus, referenced codes also contain many other requirements that are related to sustainability. As another example, buildings that are not constructed to adequately resist fire, wind and moisture are likely to have shorter life spans and, therefore, be less sustainable than buildings that are compliant with other codes.This code is not intended to abridge or supersede safety, health or environmental requirements under other applicable code®s or regulations/bylaws approved by AHJ. It does not contain specific provisions that are necessary to provide a structurally sound, durable and safe fundamental building.
102.4.1
Conflicting provisions.Where the extent of the reference to a referenced code or standard includes subject matter that is within the scope of this code or the International Codes as adopted by AHJ listed in Section 102.4, the provisions of this code or the International Codes listed in Section 102.4, as applicable, shall take precedence over the provisions in the referenced code or standard.In cases where a referenced code establishes a specific requirement for a certain condition, that requirement is applicable even if it is less restrictive than a standard or other code referenced.
102.4.2
Application of referenced standards.The standards referenced in this code and listed in Chapter 11 shall be considered to be part of the requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of such reference. Where differences exist between the provisions of this code and a referenced standard, the provisions of this code shall apply. Informative references in Informative Appendix G are cited to acknowledge sources and are not part of this code.The standards referenced in this code and listed in Chapter 11 shall be considered to be part of the requirements of the GBCP-2023. Where differences exist, this section states that the provisions of the GBCP-2023 shall apply. Informative references in Informative Appendix G are cited to acknowledge sources and are not part of this code.
102.5
Partial invalidity.In the event that any part or provision of this code is held to be illegal or void, this shall not have the effect of making void or illegal any of the other parts or provisions.Only invalid sections of the code, as established by the court of jurisdiction, can be set aside. This is essential to safeguard the application of the code text to situations when a provision is declared illegal or unconstitutional. This section preserves the legislative action that put the legal provisions in place.
102.6
Existing structures.The legal occupancy of any structure existing on the date of adoption of this code shall be permitted to continue without change, except as is specifically covered in this code; and where adopted by AHJ, the Building Code of Pakistan-2021, the International Existing Building Code, the International Property Maintenance Code or the Building Code of Pakistan – Fire Safety Provision 2016; or as is deemed necessary by AHJ for the general safety and welfare of building occupants and the public.An existing structure may be considered approved with code adoption, provided that the building meets a minimum level of safety. Frequently, the criteria for this level are the regulations (or code) under which the existing building was originally constructed. If there are no previous code criteria to apply, the code official must apply those provisions that are reasonably applicable to existing buildings. A specific level of safety and public welfare protection is dictated by provisions dealing with hazard abatement and protection of the environment in existing buildings, as well as maintenance provisions, as contained in the code, the Building Code of Pakistan–2021, the International Property Maintenance Code® (IPMC®) and the Building Code of Pakistan—Fire Safety Provision 2016. These codes are referenced (see Section 102.4) and are applicable to existing buildings.
102.7
Mixed occupancy buildings.In mixed occupancy buildings, each portion of a building shall comply with the specific requirements of this code applicable to each specific occupancy.In mixed occupancy buildings, the requirements of the code that are associated with each separate occupancy must be applied to each portion of the building so occupied. For example, bicycle parking spaces address many types of occupancies, requiring different numbers for buildings without dwelling units and another based on bedrooms for a building with dwelling units. As such, each portion of the building that is classified as a particular type of occupancy must be addressed separately, and the number of spaces required for each occupancy classification must be summed to find the total number of spaces required for the project. Section 101.3 requires that occupancy classifications be determined in accordance with the provisions of the Building Code of Pakistan–2021.
PART 2—ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION
103 CODE COMPLIANCE AGENCY
103.1
General. The provisions of this code shall be implemented, administered and enforced by AHJ using their organizational procedures.This section establishes the function of the code compliance agency of the GBCP-2023 as approved by the authority having jurisdiction (AHJ).
103.2
Appointment.This section is intentionally left blank.
103.3
Deputies.This section is intentionally left blank.
SECTION
104 DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE AUTHORITY HAVING JURISDICTION
104.1
General. These Provisions shall apply without restriction, unless specifically exempted. AHJ shall have the authority to render interpretations of this code and to adopt policies and procedures in order to clarify the application of its provisions with the help of experts (Registered design professionals). Such interpretations, policies and procedures shall be in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code and other applicable codes and ordinances. Such policies and procedures shall not have the effect of waiving requirements specifically provided for in this code or other applicable codes and ordinances.The duty of the code official as appointed by AHJ is to enforce the code, and he or she is the “authority having jurisdiction” for all matters relating to the code and its enforcement. It is the duty of the code official to interpret the code and to determine compliance. Code compliance will not always be easy to determine and will require judgment and expertise, particularly when enforcing the provisions of Sections 105.3 through 105.6.1. In exercising this authority, however, the code official cannot set aside or ignore any provision of the code.
104.2
Applications and permits. AHJ shall establish procedures to enforce compliance with the provisions of this code as part of the enforcement of other applicable codes and regulations, including the referenced codes listed in Section 102.4.The AHJ shall enforce the provisions of this code as part of their duty to enforce provisions of other adopted codes within the jurisdiction. Typically, the code official provides administrative, plan check and inspection services for all code-related issues, so enforcing of the GBCP-2023 is designed to fold into this infrastructure.
104.3
Notices and orders. AHJ shall issue all necessary notices or orders to ensure compliance with this code.An important element of code enforcement is the necessary advisement of deficiencies and corrections, which is accomplished through written notices and orders. The issuance of notices or orders can occur at any time during the application, plan review, or construction process. The AHJ is required to issue orders to abate illegal or unsafe conditions.
104.4
Inspections. AHJ shall make inspections, as required, to determine code compliance. AHJ is authorized to engage such expert opinion (by a registered design professional) as deemed necessary to report on unusual technical issues that arise, subject to the approval of the appointing authority.The AHJ is required to make inspections as necessary to determine compliance with the code or to accept written reports of inspections by an approved agency. The inspection of the work is another significant element in determining code compliance. While a department does not have the resources to inspect every aspect of all work, the required inspections are those that are dictated by administrative rules and procedures based on many parameters, including available inspection resources. In order to expand the available resources for inspection purposes, the AHJ may approve an agency that, in his or her opinion, complies with the appropriate criteria. When unusual, extraordinary or complex technical issues arise relative to building safety, the code official of AHJ has the authority to seek the opinion and advice of experts. Because this usually involves the expenditure of funds, the approval of the jurisdiction’s chief executive, or other authorized personnel, is required. A technical report from an expert requested by the code official of AHJ can be used to assist in the approval process.
SECTION
105 APPROVAL
105.1
General.This code is not intended to prevent the use of any material, method of construction, design, system, or innovative approach not specifically prescribed herein, provided that such construction, design, system or innovative approach has been approved by AHJ as meeting the intent of this code and all other applicable laws, codes and ordinances.The code is not intended to inhibit innovative ideas or technological advances. A comprehensive regulatory document such as the code cannot envision and then address all future innovations in the industry. As a result, a performance code must be applicable to and provide a basis for the approval of an increasing number of newly developed, innovative materials, systems and methods for which no code text or referenced standards yet exist. The fact that a material, product or method of construction is not addressed in the code is not an indication that such material, product or method is intended to be prohibited. The code official is expected to apply sound technical judgment in accepting materials, systems or methods that, while not anticipated by the drafters of the current code text, can be demonstrated to offer equivalent performance (see the commentary to Sections 105.3 and 105.4).
105.2
Approved materials and equipment.Materials, equipment, devices and innovative approaches approved by AHJ shall be constructed, installed and maintained in accordance with such approval.The code is a compilation of criteria with which materials, equipment, devices and systems must comply to be suitable for a particular application. The AHJ has a duty to evaluate such materials, equipment, devices and systems for code compliance and, when compliance is determined, approve the same for use. The materials, equipment, devices and systems must be constructed and installed in compliance with, and all conditions and limitations considered as a basis for, that approval. For example, the manufacturer’s instructions and recommendations are to be followed if the approval of the material was based, even in part, on those instructions and recommendations. The approval authority given to the AHJ is a significant responsibility and is key to code compliance. The approval process is first technical and then administrative and must be approached as such. For example, if data to determine code compliance are required, such data should be in the form of test reports or engineering analysis and not simply taken from a sales brochure.
105.2.1
Used materials, products and equipment.Used materials, products and equipment that are to be reused shall meet the requirements of this code for new materials. Used equipment and devices that are to be reused are subject to the approval of AHJ.The code criteria for materials and equipment have changed over the years. Evaluation of testing and materials technology has permitted the development of new criteria that the old materials may not satisfy. As a result, used materials are required to be evaluated in the same manner as new materials. Used materials, equipment and devices must be equivalent to that required by the code if they are to be used again in a new installation.
105.3
Modifications.Where there are practical difficulties involved in carrying out the provisions of this code, AHJ shall seek expert opinion (by a registered design professional) to grant modifications for individual cases, upon application of the owner or the owner’s authorized agent, provided AHJ shall first find that special individual reason makes the strict letter of this code impractical and that the modification is in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code and that such modification does not lessen the minimum requirements of this code. The details of granting modifications shall be recorded and entered in the files of the department.The AHJ has the authority to approve modifications to code requirements where there are practical difficulties involved. This is not intended, however, to allow code provisions to be altered wherever there are hardships involved. The strict enforcement of the code must be impartial. The modification must comply such that it does not undermine the intent and purpose of the code.
105.4
Innovative approaches and alternative materials, design, and methods of construction and equipment.The provisions of this code are not intended to prevent the installation of any material or to prohibit any design, innovative approach, or method of construction not specifically prescribed by this code, provided that any such alternative has been approved. An alternative material, design, innovative approach or method of construction shall be reviewed and approved where AHJ takes help from experts (Registered design professionals) to review and confirm that the proposed alternative is satisfactory and complies with the intent of the provisions of this code, and that the material, design, method or work offered is, for the purpose intended, at least the equivalent of that prescribed in this code The details of granting the use of alternative materials, designs, innovative approach and methods of construction shall be recorded and entered in the files of the department. Where the alternative material, design or method of construction is not approved, AHJ shall respond in writing, stating the reasons the alternative was not approved.Section 105.4 addresses alternative materials, design and methods of construction and equipment in a manner that is virtually identical to most other I-Codes®, except that it adds the concept of “innovative approaches” to the mix. While this is not inherently different than other I-Codes and may be considered by some to be redundant, the “innovative approaches” language is used in other green and sustainable codes, standards, rating systems and programs and is used here to clearly indicate how innovative new materials, systems and approaches should be addressed in the code. While “innovative” approaches are often construed to be inherently better or more desirable than other approaches, the code recognizes that this is not always true, and therefore requires that evidence be shown to substantiate that the innovative approach performs in a manner equivalent to the code-prescribed approach. The AHJ is responsible for determining whether a requested alternative provides an equivalent level of performance to that prescribed in the code for similar materials, designs and methods of construction and equipment. Where the AHJ does not approve the alternative material or method, a statement indicating why it was not approved must be provided by the AHJ to the owner or the owner’s authorized agent. This is intended to give the owner or agent guidance as to how they might revise their proposed alternative design so that it might then be approved by the code official (see the commentary to Section 105.1).
105.4.1
Research reports.Supporting data, where necessary to assist in the approval of materials or assemblies not specifically provided for in this code, shall consist of valid research reports from approved sources.New materials and methods must be carefully analyzed to ensure that they serve their intended purpose. Research reports may be utilized to demonstrate performance where they are provided by independent sources that are approved by the AHJ. Additionally, the reports themselves must be evaluated by the code AHJ prior to approval.
105.4.2
Tests.Where there is insufficient evidence of compliance with the provisions of this code, or evidence that a material or method does not conform to the requirements of this code, or in order to substantiate claims for alternative materials or methods, AHJ shall have the authority to require tests as evidence of compliance to be made at no expense to AHJ. Test methods shall be as specified in this code or by other recognized test standards. In the absence of recognized and accepted test methods, AHJ shall approve the testing procedures with the help of experts (Registered design professionals). Tests shall be performed by an approved agency. Reports of such tests shall be retained by AHJ for the period required for retention of public records.Where research reports are unavailable to assist in the analysis of a material or method’s ability to serve its intended purpose, the AHJ has the power to require that testing be performed to verify that ability. These tests must be performed by an approved agency and the test methods must be conducted as specified in the GBCP-2023 or a recognized standard. If no recognized standards exist, the AHJ may approve testing procedures. Test reports containing the results must be retained in accordance with the record retention policy of the jurisdiction.
105.5
Compliance materials.AHJ shall be permitted to take help from experts (Registered design professionals) to approve specific computer software, worksheets, compliance manuals and other similar materials that meet the intent of this code. AHJ may permit the use to innovative materials such as Fiber reinforced polymer (FRP) bars exclusively for NON-STRUCTURAL applications in consultation with experts.Section 105.5 grants AHJ’s the authority to approve specific computer software, compliance manuals and other similar materials as meeting the requirements of various provisions of the code.While Section 105.5 may be redundant with the basic provisions of Section 105.4, it takes extra steps to indicate the type and magnitude of the approvals that the code official has the power to deem compliant.
105.6
Approved programs.This section is intentionally left blank.
105.6.1
Specific approval.This section is intentionally left blank.
SECTION
106 PERMITS
106.1
Required.Any owner or owner’s authorized agent who intends to construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish, or change the occupancy of a building or structure, or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert or replace any energy, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, the installation of which is regulated by this code, or to cause any such work to be done, shall first make application to AHJ and obtain the required permit under the applicable adopted code or regulation relevant to the intended work. Exemptions from permit requirements shall not be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in violation of the provisions of this code or any other applicable laws, codes or ordinances of AHJ.In accordance with Section 101.2 (§ 1.2), Section 106.1 assumes that permits will be required by construction codes adopted by AHJ, as indicated and listed in Section 102.4. However, it should be noted that there are some instances where work may be exempt from a permit. Where a permit would not be required, the provisions of this code, laws or ordinances of the jurisdiction must still be applied.
SECTION
107 CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS
107.1
Information on construction documents. Where adopted by AHJ, the content and format of construction documents shall comply with the Building Code of Pakistan-2021.The code defers to the Building Code of Pakistan-2021 for requirements related to the content and format of construction documents where the IBC has been adopted; however, various provisions of the code may also require that specific information or documentation related to this code be included in the construction documents.
SECTION
108 FEES
108.1
Payment of fees.A permit shall not be valid until the fees prescribed by law have been paid, nor shall an amendment to a permit be released until the additional fee, if any, has been paid.A permit or an amendment to a permit shall not be valid until the fees prescribed by law have been paid.
108.2
Schedule of permit fees.Where a permit is required, a fee for each permit shall be paid as required, in accordance with the schedule as established by AHJ.Fees shall be paid in accordance with the schedule as established by the applicable governing authority.
108.3
Permit valuations.This section is intentionally left blank.
108.4
Work commencing before permit issuance.Any person who commences any work before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to a fee established by AHJ that shall be in addition to the required permit fees.Work started before obtaining the permits shall be subject to a fee established by the building official.
108.5
Related fees.The payment of the fee for the construction, alteration, removal, or demolition work done in connection to or concurrently with the work authorized by a permit shall not relieve the applicant or holder of the permit from the payment of other fees that are prescribed by law.Other fees prescribed by law must be paid in addition to the payment of the fee for the work done in connection to or concurrently with the work authorized by a permit.
108.6
Refunds.AHJ is authorized to establish a refund policy.
SECTION
109 INSPECTIONS
109.1
General.Construction or work for which a permit is required shall be subject to inspection by AHJ and such construction or work shall remain visible and able to be accessed for inspection purposes until approved. Approval as a result of an inspection shall not be construed to be an approval of a violation of the provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction. Inspections presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid. It shall be the duty of the owner or the owner’s authorized agent to cause the work to remain accessible and exposed for inspection purposes. AHJ shall not be liable for the expense entailed in the removal or replacement of any material required to allow inspection.The inspection function is one of the more important aspects of AHJ operations. This section authorizes the officials of AHJ to inspect the work for which a permit has been issued and requires that the work to be inspected remain accessible to the official of AHJ until inspected and approved. Any expense incurred in removing or replacing material that conceals an item to be inspected is not the responsibility of the building official or the jurisdiction. As with the issuance of permits (see Section 106.1), approval as a result of an inspection is not a license to violate the code and an approval in violation of the code does not relieve the applicant from complying with the code and is not valid.
SECTION
110 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY
110.1
Violations. Issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall not be construed as an approval of a violation of the provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction.
SECTION
111 MEANS OF APPEALS
111.1
General.The procedures given in the regulations of AHJ regarding appeals, hearing of appeals, duration and their decisions shall be followed. The appeal shall be heard by a committee constituted by the next higher body above AHJ having members with relevant experience, who are registered with PEC, PCATP or AHJ. The committee shall adopt rules of procedure for conducting its business and shall render all decisions and findings in writing to the appellant with a duplicate copy to AHJ.This section provides an aggrieved party having a material interest in the decision of the AHJ a process to appeal a decision before a committee. This provides a forum, other than the court of jurisdiction, in which to review the AHJ.This section allows any person to appeal a decision of the AHJ. In practice, this section has been interpreted to permit appeals only by those aggrieved parties with a material or definitive interest in the decision of the AHJ. An aggrieved party may not appeal a code requirement per se. The intent of the appeal process is not to waive or set aside a code requirement; rather, it is intended to provide a means of reviewing an AHJ’s decision on an interpretation or application of the code or to review the equivalency of protection to the code requirements. The members of the appeal committee must have relevant experience, be registered with PEC, PCATP or AHJ, and remain members until removed from office. The committee must establish procedures for electing a chairperson, scheduling and conducting meetings, and administration.
111.2
Limitations on authority.An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or an equivalent or better form of construction is proposed. The committee shall not have authority to waive requirements of this code or interpret the administration of this code.This section establishes the grounds for an appeal, which is based on claims that the AHJ has misinterpreted or misapplied a code provision. The committee is not allowed to set aside any of the technical requirements of the code; however, it is permitted to consider alternative methods of compliance (see Section 105.4).
111.3
Qualifications.The committee of appeals shall consist of members who are qualified by experience and training to pass on matters pertaining to building construction and are not employees of AHJ.
111.4
Administration.AHJ shall take immediate action in accordance with the decision of the board.
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
•
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.