======================================================================
Chapter 7 Energy Efficiency
======================================================================

Chapter 6 Water Use Efficiency - Green Building Code of Pakistan with Commentary
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2023
Green Building Code of Pakistan with Commentary
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2023 Green Building Code of Pakistan with Commentary 2021 Building Code of Pakistan 2024 International Energy Conservation Code and ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1-2022 (IECC) 2024 International Green Construction Code Code (IgCC) 2024 International Zoning Code (IZC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
Pakistan
/
2023 Green Building Code of Pakistan with Commentary
Chapter 6 Water Use Efficiency
2023 Green Building Code of Pakistan with Commentary
favorite_border
2021 IGCC
Amended
Version:
Dec 2024
Contents
Notes
Overview
Copyright
Preface
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Chapter 2 Reserved
Chapter 3 Definitions, Abbreviations and Acronyms
Chapter 4 Reserved
Chapter 5 Site Sustainability
Chapter 6 Water Use Efficiency
601.1 (6.1) Scope.
601.2 (6.2) Compliance.
601.3 (6.3) Mandatory Provisions.
Chapter 7 Energy Efficiency
Chapter 8 Indoor Environmental Quality (Ieq)
Chapter 9 Materials and Resources
Chapter 10 Construction and Plans for Operation
Informative Appendix a Normative References
Informative Appendix B Prescriptive Equipment Efficiency Tables for the Alternate Reduced Renewables and Increased Equipment Efficiency Approach in Section 701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1)
Informative Appendix C Performance Option for Energy Efficiency
Informative Appendix D Building Concentrations
Informative Appendix E Building Envelope Tables
Informative Appendix F Integrated Design
Informative Appendix G Informative References
Informative Appendix H Option for Energy Efficiency Using the IECC Prescriptive Compliance Path
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
CHAPTER
6 WATER USE EFFICIENCYGENERAL COMMENTSWater conservation is the practice of using water efficiently to reduce unnecessary water usage. Water conservation is more important than ever and is extremely critical for the environment.Chapter 6 provides requirements that are intended to conserve potable and nonpotable water both for the site and within the building.Section 601.3.1 limits the amount of water based on low-water use landscape design parameters and irrigation system design.Section 601.3.2 regulates water consumption of plumbing fixture and fitting flow and flush rates, including appliances, HVAC equipment, food service operations and medical/laboratory facilities.Section 601.3.3 provides requirements to ensure properly sized tubing for efficient delivery of hot water based on allowable pipe volume and length.Section 601.3.4 is a jurisdictional option of AHJ that regulates water use in ornamental fountains, water features, pools and spas.Section 601.3.5 requires water consumption monitoring for water supply and subsystems within the building. Consumption data collection and storage is a jurisdictional option of AHJ.Sections 601.3.6 and 601.3.7 regulate water softeners and reverse osmosis water treatment systems based on efficiency measures.Section 601.3.8 contains provisions for on-site reclaimed water treatment systems.Section 601.3.9 is a jurisdictional option of AHJ for locations where reclaimed water supply is available or planned to be available within 5 years. This provision requires the installation of a dual water supply plumbing system for delivering reclaimed water to urinals and water closets.PURPOSEChapter 6 establishes provisions for water conservation, efficiency and safety to help ensure there is a continuous water supply for future generations.The provisions of this chapter are intended to reduce use because water is so crucial to our health, and we only have a finite amount of fresh water on the planet. It is also important to ensure food security for all the living organisms on Earth. Without water, the plants and crops on which we survive cannot grow.
601.1 (6.1)
Scope.This section specifies requirements for potable water and nonpotable water use efficiency, both for the site and for the building, and water monitoring.The water efficiency measures in the GBCP-2023 are designed to reduce water consumption in buildings and on landscapes by setting efficiency criteria that reduces water use without compromising performance.If correctly incorporated, many of the water efficiency measures within the GBCP-2023 are those that building occupants will never notice. For example, if the building water pressure is sufficient and the pipes properly sized, a high-efficiency water closet or shower head will perform just as well as its conventional counterpart.The key to implementing successful water efficiency measures is to consider the water use of a building project in a holistic way. As such, the design professional must consider the following:•The various functions within the project that will consume water.•Design alternatives that accomplish those functions without the need to import water.•A variety of water sources, such as captured rainwater, cooling tower blowdown water, and reclaimed water, including greywater.•High-efficiency plumbing fixtures.•Water-bottle filling stations that accompany drinking fountains.•Efficient delivery of hot water supply.• High-efficiency process equipment.•High-efficiency landscape and irrigation system designs.•Monitoring devices and submetering of water consumption.•Demand-initiated controls to reduce water consumption of water softeners and reverse osmosis water treatment systems.By considering overall water use in a building and incorporating efficiency measures early in the design process, projects can hold consumption to a minimum and improve performance without a noticeable impact on building occupants or processes.Demand ReductionThe least expensive means of conserving water is typically achieved by limiting demand through effective design. For site water used on landscaped areas, demand reduction can take the form of designing irrigation systems that are tailored to specific hydrozones, thereby grouping plant species together by their water needs for more effective and efficient watering. In addition, selecting plant species that are native or adapted to the local climatic conditions and that grow acceptably well within normal rainfall patterns can save significant amounts of water. For building water uses, the design professional may consider alternate approaches to ornamental water fountains, aiming to accomplish the same aesthetic effect with designs that use far less water than conventional ones. For example, designing overspray controls and catch basins for water reuse in ornamental fountains can greatly improve efficiency while reducing waste.Potable water is a precious and high-grade resource for human health, yet it is used in a variety of building and landscape applications where lower grades of water could meet the need while providing environmental benefits. The GBCP- 2023 seeks to reduce the use of potable water for landscape irrigation and requires projects to utilize suitable alternate sources of water, either from off-site or on-site. Alternative on-site sources of water are strongly encouraged for irrigated landscapes, followed by municipally supplied reclaimed water. There are exceptions for golf courses, dedicated athletic fields, food production areas, and for newly installed landscapes during the landscape establishment period or rainfall ETc compatible plants. See Sections 601.3.1.1 (§ 6.3.1.1) and 601.3.1.2 (§ 6.3.1.2) for specific applications and exceptions.The availability of alternate on-site sources of water varies greatly across different regions worldwide. In some regions, captured rainwater is an abundant and accessible resource, while in other areas, on-site water capture is not permitted by local authorities. On-site water treatment systems, ranging from full wastewater treatment plants to small greywater or industrial process water treatment systems, can be used to generate water for building restroom water closet and urinal fixtures or for landscape irrigation.Many building air-conditioning systems generate a substantial volume of condensate water that collects on the cooling coils and is diverted to a sewer drain. Depending on the climate and HVAC design, the GBCP-2023 requires the condensate to be recovered for reuse within the building project.High-Efficiency Fixtures and EquipmentThe design professional should exhaust all opportunities for demand reduction and the use of alternate on-site sources of water while at the same time considering high-efficiency plumbing fixture selection. The designer, however, must also consider the quality of the alternate water, as some fixtures, fittings, and equipment will not function properly with a lower quality of water. In fact, some manufacturers may not honor the warranty on new products if they are served by a nonpotable source of lesser quality water. In all cases, high-efficiency toilet (HET) and high-efficiency urinal (HEU) fixtures are candidates for the use of alternate sources of water, provided the water quality meets the minimum requirements of the fixture manufacturer such that the fixture and valve warranties remain in place.
601.2 (6.2)
Compliance.All provisions of Chapter 6 are mandatory provisions.All of the provisions in Chapter 6 of the 2021 GBCP-2023 are mandatory and therefore required for all projects. There are no performance pathways that allow tradeoffs for site water use reduction or building water use reduction.The requirements in Chapter 6 contain limits on the percentage of irrigation that can be served by a potable water source and provide a series of criteria for plumbing fixtures and appliances, cooling towers, commercial food service equipment, medical/laboratory equipment, hot-water distribution, ornamental water features, pools, water consumption management, water treatment systems, and dual water supply plumbing.Improved Landscape AreaStep 1. Calculate the area of site disturbed by construction activities that will be planted with new plant materials and/or grasses for vegetated use. Include in-ground, above ground, roofs, planter boxes, stormwater controls and any other areas that include new vegetation.Step 2. Exclude any hardscape areas of the landscape, such as sidewalks, roads, decking, pools, and other paved or nonvegetated areas.Step 3. If the building project is a school, has residential common areas, or has public recreation facilities, then exclude any areas of dedicated athletic fields, golf courses, driving ranges, and areas dedicated for production of food for human consumption.Step 4. The resulting area, after following Steps 1 through 3, is the improved landscape area for the building projectFigure 6A How to Calculate a Building Project Site’s Improved Landscape AreaLandscape Design Requirements Step 1. Start with the improved landscape area value as calculated in Figure 6-A. Step 2. If any areas of the improved landscape are to be irrigated with alternate on-site sources of water, then those areas are exempt from Section 601.3.1.1 (§ 6.3.1.1) requirements and can be subtracted from the improved landscape area for the purposes of the landscape design requirements of Section 601.3.1.1 (§ 6.3.1.1). Step 3. Multiply the value from Step 2 by 60 percent to determine the area of the improved landscape that must be planted with biodiverse planting of native plants and rainfall-ETc compatible plants. Step 4. Select plants that meet the criteria of Section 601.3.1.1 (§ 6.3.1.1) for the entire area of the site calculated in Step 3. Choose native or rainfall-ETc compatible plants exclusively for the area of the site calculated in step 3. Step 5. To see if any plantings automatically comply with the rainfall-ETc
compatible plants criteria [in accordance with Section 601.3.1.1 (§ 6.3.1.1), Exception 3], determine the average annual rainfall for the building project site. If the project is located in an area where average annual rainfall is less than 12 inches (300 mm), then calculate the area that contains any plantsother thanturfgrass withan annualETc of 15inches (380mm) or less. These planted areas are deemed to meet the requirements for rainfall-ETc
compatible plants. Include these planting areas as fulfilling the criteria of Section 601.3.1.1 (§ 6.3.1.1).Figure 6B Steps to Determine Landscape Design Requirements for Section 601.3.1.1 (§ 6.3.1.1)Figure 6C Irrigation Requirements for Planting Types in Section 601.3.1.2 (§ 6.3.1.2)Irrigation RequirementsThis table provides at-a-glance information on the irrigation requirements of Section 601.3.1.2 (§ 6.3.1.2) for various plant types. Review the full requirements of Section 601.3.1.2 (§ 6.3.1.2) for additional details, exclusions and exceptions.TABLE 6-A
IRRIGATION REQUIREMENTS FOR PLANTING TYPES IN SECTION 601.3.1.2Water SourceNative PlantsRainfall-ETc Compatible PlantsAdapted PlantsDedicated AthleticFieldsAll Other PlantsPotable waterAllowed for up to one-third of the improved landscape area calculated in Figure 6-ANot allowed for irrigationAllowed for up to one-third of the improved landscape area calculated in figure 6-AAllowed for schools, residential common areas and public recreational facilitiesAllowed for up to one-third of the improved landscape area calculated in figure 6-AOff-site reclaimed waterAllowedNot allowed, except for plants meeting Section 6.3.1.1, Exception 3Allowed during landscape establishment period. Must be removed or disabled after 18 months.AllowedAllowedOn-site alternate sources of waterAllowedAllowedAllowedAllowedAllowed
601.3 (6.3)
Mandatory provisions.Compliance with the GBCP-2023 requires that the mandatory provisions be satisfied in all cases. All measures are mandatory in Chapter 6. These mandates ensure that projects do not overlook critical water-saving features in any part of their buildings or sites.
601.3.1 (6.3.1)
Site water use reduction.The site water use reduction category covers landscape design under Section 601.3.1.1 (§ 6.3.1.1), and irrigation under Sections 601.3.1.2 The intent of Section 601.3.1 (§ 6.3.1) is to ensure that a building project’s vegetated landscape is designed and irrigated to conserve water, particularly potable water, and minimize waste. The GBCP-2023 requires biodiverse planting of native plants and rainfall-ETc compatible plants. Projects have flexibility within the definitions of these terms, but the end result should be a landscape design and species selections that are well suited to the local climate and require little if any irrigation.The requirements for site water use informs the selection of plant species and the design and controls of irrigation systems, by providing criteria for the sources of water that can be used for different applications. These requirements do not apply to dedicated athletic fields within schools, residential common areas, or public recreational facilities, since such areas are used heavily, especially by children, leading to an increased risk that users could come into direct contact with nonpotable water. See Figure 6-A for more information on calculating the areas covered by these criteria.
601.3.1.1 (6.3.1.1)
Landscape design.A minimum of 60% of the area of the improved landscape shall be in biodiverse planting of native plants and rainfall-ETc compatible plants.Exceptions:1. The area of dedicated athletic fields, golf courses, driving ranges, and areas dedicated for production of food for human consumption shall be excluded from the calculation of the improved landscape for schools, residential common areas, or public recreational facilities.2. Landscape areas irrigated solely with alternate on-site sources of water shall be exempted from these requirements.3. Where average annual rainfall is less than 12 in. (300 mm), plants other than turf-grass, with an annual ETc of 15 in. (380 mm) or less, shall be deemed equivalent to rainfall-ETc compatible plants.Biodiverse landscape design techniques using native and rainfall-ETc compatible plants offer many environmental and maintenance benefits in addition to water savings. The environmental benefits may include habitat creation for birds and beneficial insects, reduced fertilizer use, and reduced pesticide/herbicide use. The maintenance benefits may include reduced storage and management of chemicals and reduced pruning/cutting frequency. Design professionals can use local resources and national plant species databases to identify plant palettes that satisfy the definitions (Chapter 3) of native plants and rainfall ETc compatible plants.
601.3.1.2 (6.3.1.2)
Horticulture.For landscaped areas, not greater than one-third of improved landscape area is allowed to be irrigated with potable water. The area of dedicated athletic fields shall be excluded from the calculation of the improved landscape for schools, residential common areas, and public recreational facilities. All other irrigation shall be provided from alternate sources of water.Exception: Potable water is allowed to be used on such newly installed landscape for the landscape establishment period. The amount of potable water allowed to be applied to the newly planted areas during the landscape establishment period shall not exceed 70% of ET o for turf-grass and 55% of ET o for other plantings.ETo values can be found in regional agricultural data for the project jurisdiction. The scale at which these data are collected and the agencies publishing it vary by region.For all landscaped areas (other than dedicated athletic fields for schools, residential common areas and public recreational facilities), potable water use is limited to one-third, or less, of the total improved landscape area. Best practices to meet this requirement might include:•Extensive use of native plants that do not require irrigation•Connection of the irrigation system to a municipal reclaimed water source•An on-site wastewater or graywater treatment system, with the effluent used for irrigation•Diversion/recovery of water from foundation dewatering operations for use in irrigation•Recovery of cooling tower blowdown and/or condensate water from HVAC systemsIf alternate on-site sources of water are not easily incorporated into the project, design professionals are encouraged to investigate thoroughly the nearest municipal reclaimed water systems. In many cases, the main distribution piping for these systems exists within reasonable proximity to the project but may not have been previously extended to the site boundary. Local water authorities typically have incentives or provisions for extending this piping to serve new projects. You can discover these by asking the appropriate agency or local water authority. Additionally, design professionals may consider an industrial ecology approach: other industrial facilities in close proximity to the project may be producing water as an effluent and may be amenable to delivering that water for reuse to avoid sewer disposal charges.Exception for Temporary Irrigation SystemPotable water may be used in a temporary irrigation system to support initial plant establishment without counting towards the one-third maximum allowance in Section 601.3.1.2 (§ 6.3.1.2). However, the amount of potable water used during this landscape establishment period may not exceed 70 percent of evapotranspiration (ETc) for turfgrass and 55 percent of ETc for other plants. The landscape establishment period cannot exceed 18 months, and once it ends, the temporary irrigation system must be removed or permanently disabled.Golf Courses & Driving RangesThe criteria for golf courses and driving ranges are the most stringent because these uses are particularly water-intensive and have been demonstrated to be ideal candidates for the use of nonpotable water. For these areas, no potable water use for irrigation is permitted.Irrigated turf should be used only for areas where it is functionally appropriate, such as on playgrounds and athletic fields. For schools, residential common areas, public recreation facilities, and areas dedicated for the production of food, the calculated area of athletic fields, golf courses, and driving ranges are excluded from the total area of improved landscape. All other landscaped areas in all building types must use native and/or adapted vegetation for at least 60 percent of the total landscaped area. While the GBCP-2023 only requires a 60 percent minimum threshold, projects may benefit from using such vegetation on 100 percent of the site.
601.3.1.2.1 (6.3.1.2.1)
Irrigation system design. The design of the irrigation system shall be performed by an accredited or certified irrigation professional and shall be in accordance with the following:a. Irrigation systems:1. Shall be based on hydro zones. Turf-grass areas shall be on their own irrigation stations.2. Shall have backflow prevention in accordance with the plumbing code (Informative note: e.g., International Plumbing Code).3.
Shall have a master valve on municipally supplied water sources that allows pressurization of the irrigation mainline only when irrigation is scheduled.4.
Shall have a flow sensor and monitoring equipment that will shut off the control valve if the flow exceeds normal flow from an irrigation station.5. Shall prevent piping from draining between irrigation events.b. Irrigation emission devices shall comply with ASABE/ICC 802, Landscape Irrigation Sprinkler and Emitter Standard.c. Irrigation sprinklers:1. Shall not spray water directly on buildings or hardscape area.2. Shall have matched precipitation rate nozzles within an irrigation station.3. Shall be prohibited on landscape areas having any dimension less than 4 ft (1.2 m).4. Shall have an application rate less than or equal to 0.75 in. (19 mm) per hour on slopes greater than 1 unit vertical in 4 units horizontal.5. Shall be limited to use with turf-grass or ground cover areas with vegetation maintained at 8 in. (200 mm) or less in height.6. Where of the pop-up configuration, shall have a pop-up height of not less than 4 in. (100 mm).d. Micro-Horticulture zones:1. Shall be equipped with pressure regulators, filters, and flush assemblies.2. Shall have indicators that allow confirmation of operation by visual inspection.3. Drip emitters shall be of pressure-compensating type.Once appropriate plantings are chosen, projects must group the plants into irrigation zones so that those requiring similar moisture levels are near each other and can be similarly irrigated, a practice known as hydrozoning. With hydrozoning, a project’s irrigation system will provide only the required amount of water to each group of plants, thus reducing the overall water needed for irrigation as compared to conventional irrigating practices. The GBCP-2023 prohibits sprinklers from spraying water within 1 m of a building, irrigating areas of landscape that are less than 4 ft (1.2 m) wide, or over-irrigating sloped areas that can cause overspray and wasteful runoff. Although not required by the GBCP-2023, good landscape irrigation design also minimizes water spray onto walkways, parking lots and other non-landscaped areas to conserve water and reduce runoff. Turfgrass areas must be on a separately zoned irrigation system.
601.3.1.2.2 (6.3.1.2.2)
Controls.Where any irrigation system for the project site uses an automatic controller, the system shall be controlled by a qualifying smart controller that uses evapotranspiration (ET) and weather data to adjust irrigation schedules and complies with the minimum requirements. Alternatively, the system shall be controlled by an on-site rain or moisture sensor that automatically shuts off the system after a predetermined amount of rainfall or sensed moisture in the soil. Qualifying smart controllers shall be labeled according to respect (Federal / Provincial / Territorial) EPAs of Pakistan Water Sense Specification for Weather-Based Irrigation Controllers Smart controllers that use ET data shall provide the following irrigation amounts:a. Irrigation adequacy — 80% minimum ETc.b. Irrigation excess—not to exceed 10% of ETc.Exception: A temporary irrigation system used exclusively for the establishment of new landscape shall be exempt from this requirement. Temporary irrigation systems shall be removed or permanently disabled at such time as the landscape establishment period has expired.Advanced smart controllers [also known as weather-based irrigation controllers (WBICs)] provide a simple solution to overirrigating vegetated landscapes. Traditionally, irrigation systems have been controlled by clock timers. Without frequent manual adjustment to a clock timer in order to account for weather changes, plants are watered regardless of weather or seasonal changes. Smart controllers, on the other hand, address this issue by adjusting irrigation levels based on real-time (or historic) local weather and moisture conditions. Various types of smart controllers exist in the marketplace. Those that use evapotranspiration (ET) and weather data adjust irrigation based on local climatic conditions. If the forecast calls for rain, the system will cut back on the amount of water used or shut off entirely. Rain and moisture sensors work in a similar manner by assessing the amount of moisture in the soil. All projects are required to use qualifying smart controllers, the requirements for which are outlined in GBCP-2023 Section 601.3.1.2.2 (§ 6.3.1.2.2).
601.3.1.2.2.1 (6.3.1.2.2.1). The following settings and schedule for the irrigation control system shall be posted on or adjacent to the controller:a. Precipitation rate of each irrigation station.b. Plant factors for each hydrozone.c. Soil type.d. Rain sensor settings.e. Soil moisture sensor settings, where installed.f. Peak demand schedule, including run times, cycle starts, and soak times.g. Maximum runtimes to prevent water runoff.
601.3.1.2.3 (6.3.1.2.3)
Irrigation of rainfall-ETc compatible plants.The use of potable water or reclaimed water for irrigation of adapted plants is prohibited after the landscape establishment period. In-ground irrigation systems for rainfall-ETc compatible plants using potable water or off-site treated reclaimed water are prohibited. After the landscape establishment period of adapted plants, the irrigation system using potable water or reclaimed water shall be permanently disabled or removed from site. However, Rainwater Harvesting Systems (Rooftop, Ponds or underground storage, as may be appropriate) would be designed and installed to cater far water requirements as well.Exception: Plants deemed equivalent to rainfall-ETc compatible plants by Section 601.3.1.1 (6.3.1.1), Exception 3, shall be exempt from the requirements of Section 601.3.1.2.3 (6.3.1.2.3).Temporary irrigation during an 18-month landscape establishment period is exempt from this requirement, but those systems must be removed on or before the end of that period.Note: It is important that the design professional also consider GBCP-2023 Sections 501.3.2 (§ 5.3.2) and 501.3.3 (§ 5.3.3) when designing the landscape and irrigation features of the project.
601.3.2 (6.3.2)
Building water use reduction.The intent of Section 601.3.2 (§ 6.3.2) is to provide criteria establishing the maximum water consumption rates of building plumbing fixtures, fittings, appliances, HVAC systems, commercial food service operations, and medical/laboratory facilities.
601.3.2.1 (6.3.2.1)
Plumbing fixtures and fittings.Plumbing fixtures (water closets and urinals) and fittings (faucets and showerheads) shall comply with the following requirements, as shown in Table 601.3.2.1 (6.3.2.1):a. Water closets (toilets)—flushometer valve type. For single-flush, maximum flush volume shall be determined in accordance with ASME A112.19.2/CSA B45.1 and shall not exceed 1.28 gal (4.8 L). For dual-flush, the full-flush volume shall not exceed 1.28 gal (4.8 L) per flush. Dual-flush fixtures shall also comply with the provisions of ASME A112.19.14.b. Water closets (toilets)—tank-type. Tank-type water closets shall be certified to the performance criteria of the respect (Federal / Provincial / Territorial) EPAs of Pakistan Water Sense Tank-Type High-Efficiency Toilet Specification and shall have a maximum full-flush volume of 1.28 gal (4.8 L). Dual-flush fixtures shall also comply with the provisions of ASME A112.19.14.c. Urinals. Maximum flush volume, when determined in accordance with ASME A112.19.2/CSA B45.1, shall not exceed 0.5 gal (1.9 L). Flushing urinals shall comply with the performance criteria of the respect (Federal / Provincial / Territorial) EPAs of Pakistan Water Sense Specification for Flushing Urinals. Non-water urinals shall comply with ASME A112.19.19 (vitreous china) or IAPMO Z124.9 (plastic) as appropriate.d. Public lavatory faucets. Maximum flow rate shall not exceed 0.5 gpm (1.9 L/min) when tested in accordance with ASME A112.18.1/CSA B125.1.e. Public metering self-closing faucet. Maximum water use shall not exceed 0.25 gal (1.0 L) per metering cycle when tested in accordance with ASME A112.18.1/CSA B125.1.f. Residential bathroom lavatory sink faucets. Maximum flow rate shall not exceed 1.5 gpm (5.7 L/min) when tested in accordance with ASME A112.18.1/CSA B125.1. Residential bathroom lavatory sink faucets shall comply with the performance criteria of the respect (Federal / Provincial / Territorial) EPAs of Pakistan Water Sense High-Efficiency Lavatory Faucet Specification.Table 601.3.2.1 lists the maximum flow rates and flush volumes allowed for typical building plumbing fixtures and fittings. Projects must choose plumbing fixtures and fittings that meet or fall below the maximum flow or flush rate for each item. These mandatory thresholds are meant to address both commercial and high-rise residential plumbing fixtures and fittings. The GBCP-2023 specifies the test procedure that must be used for establishing the water use performance for each fixture type. Some fixture types must use different test standards depending on fixture variations.In the GBCP-2023, urinals must use 0.5 gallons (1.9 L) of water per flush (gpf) or less. Urinals meeting this water use are considered “high-efficiency” urinals (HEUs) and are widely available from multiple manufacturers. Projects may go further by installing urinals with lower flush volumes, such as those flushing at 0.125 gallon (0.5 L) or waterless urinals. Note that flushing urinals must follow a different test standard than waterless urinals. Also note that waterless urinal test procedures differ based on urinal construction material.Water closets (toilets) use one of two types of designs, a flushometer valve and bowl combination or a tank-type water closet. Both flushometer and tank-type water closets are available in single-flush and dual-flush versions. For dualflush water closets, the code limits the full-flush volume to 1.28 gallons (4.8 L), equal to that of a single-flush water closet. This limits the water use of the dual-flush to no more than that of a single-flush water closet, even if the full-flush is used exclusively. For comparison of flush effectiveness, designers and specifiers may consult the freely available MaP test data for fixtures under consideration. The GBCP-2023 requires fixtures to be tested in accordance with ASME A112.19.2/CSA B45.1 and certified through the EPAs of Pakistan Water Sense.For residential bathroom lavatory faucets, the GBCP-2023 again calls for the specification of EPAs of Pakistan Water Sense -certified products. The Water Sense specification sets a maximum flow rate of 1.5 gallons per minute (5.7 L/min) and establishes a minimum at 0.8 gallon per minute (3.0 L/min). The threshold minimum assures the specifier and the user that under low-pressure conditions (20 psi) the faucet will continue to function in a satisfactory manner.The maximum flow rate for non-metered public lavatory faucets is 0.5 gallon per minute (1.9 L/min). This rate applies to all public lavatory faucets used in commercial applications other than hotel guestrooms and patient rooms in medical facilities. Lavatory faucets in a single-tenant office building without access available to the general public shall comply with a maximum flow rate of 0.5 gallon per minute (1.9 L/min).
TABLE 601.3.2.1 (TABLE 6.3.2.1)PLUMBING FIXTURES AND FITTINGS REQUIREMENTS
PLUMBING FIXTURE MAXIMUM
Water closets (toilets)—flushometer single-flush valve type Single-flush volume of 1.28 gal (4.8 L)
Water closets (toilets)—flushometer dual-flush valve type Full-flush volume of 1.28 gal (4.8 L)
Water closets (toilets)—single-flush tank-type Single-flush volume of 1.28 gal (4.8 L)
Water closets (toilets)—dual-flush tank-type Full-flush volume of 1.28 gal (4.8 L)
Urinals Flush volume 0.5 gal (1.9 L)
Public lavatory faucets Flow rate—0.5 gpm (1.9 L/min)
Public metering self-closing faucet 0.25 gal (1.0 L) per metering cycle
Residential bathroom lavatory sink faucets Flow rate—1.5 gpm (5.7 L/min)
Residential kitchen faucets Flow rate—1.8 gpm (6.8 L/min) a
Residential showerheads Flow rate—2.0 gpm (7.6 L/min)
Residential shower compartment (stall) in dwelling units and guest rooms Flow rate from all shower outlets total of 2.0 gpm (7.6 L/min)
a. With provision for a temporary override to 2.2 gpm (8.3 L/min) as specified in Section 601.3.2.1(g) [6.3.2.1(g)].g. Residential kitchen faucets. Maximum flow rate shall not exceed 1.8 gpm (6.8 L/min) when tested in accordance with ASME A112.18.1/CSA B125.1. Kitchen faucets shall be permitted to temporarily increase the flow greater than 1.8 gpm (6.8 L/min) but shall not exceed 2.2 gpm (8.3 L/min) and must automatically revert to the established maximum flow rate of 1.8 gpm (6.8 L/min) upon physical release of the activation mechanism or closure of the faucet valve.h. Residential showerheads. Maximum flow rate shall not exceed 2.0 gpm (7.6 L/min) when tested in accordance with ASME A112.18.1/CSA B125.1. Residential showerheads shall comply with the performance requirements of the respect (Federal / Provincial / Territorial) EPAs of Pakistan Water Sense Specification for Showerheads.i. Residential shower compartment (stall) in dwelling units and guest rooms. The allowable flow rate from all shower outlets (including rain systems, waterfalls, body-sprays, and jets) that can operate simultaneously shall be limited to a total of 2.0 gpm (7.6 L/min).Exception: Where the area of a shower compartment exceeds 2600 in.2 (1.7 m2), an additional flow of 2.0 gpm (7.6 L/min) shall be permitted for each multiple of 2600 in.2 (1.7 m2) of floor area or fraction thereof.j. Water-bottle filling stations. Water-bottle filling stations shall be an integral part of, or shall be installed adjacent to, not less than 50% of all drinking fountains installed indoors on the premises.Residential kitchen faucets are limited to 1.8 gallons per minute (6.8 L/min). The flow rate may be temporarily increased to no more than 2.2 gallons per minute (8.3 L/min). The flow rate is required to automatically return to a maximum flow rate of 1.8 gallons per minute (6.8 L/min) once the override actuator (lever) is released by the user. A 1.8 gallons per minute (6.8 L/min) residential kitchen faucet may include a 2.2 gallons per minute (8.3 L/min) spray nozzle. The spray nozzle is only active until the user releases the button or lever. Alternatively, a residential kitchen faucet may include an increased flow rate option for filling a pan or pot. In this scenario, the user would manually activate the increased flow for filling. When the override lever or handle is released or the faucet is turned off, the flow automatically resets to 1.8 gallons per minute (6.8 L/min) prior to the next use without action from the user.Residential showerheads and residential shower compartments (stalls) are limited to a maximum flow rate of 2.0 gallons per minute (7.6 L/min). Although the code differentiates between showerheads and shower compartments, the limitation is essentially the same. The flow rate from all showerheads and outlets (including rain systems, waterfall, body sprays and jets) shall not exceed 2.0 gallons per minute (7.6 L/ min). Where a single shower compartment less than 2,600 square inches (1.7 m2) includes multiple shower outlets where no more than one outlet operates at a time, the maximum flow rate from each outlet must be limited to 2.0 gallons per minute (7.6 L/min). Where a single shower compartment 2,600 square inches (1.7 m2) or less includes multiple shower outlets that operate simultaneously, the aggregate flow rate is limited to 2.0 gallons per minute (7.6 L/min). For larger shower compartments, an additional 2.0 gallons per minute (7.6 L/min) is permitted for each multiple of 2,600 square inches (1.7 m2) the shower compartment exceeds. For example, a 3,600 square inch (2.3 m2) shower compartment is allowed 4.0 gallons per minute (15.2 L/min) total for the shower compartment.Some common plumbing fixtures are excluded from the scope of this code because regulating the flow rate of the fixture does not determine the total volume of water to be used. For example, a janitorial service basin used to fill a mop bucket will consume the same volume of water regardless of the flow rate. Only the time required to fill the bucket will change.Water-bottle filling stations are required in the GBCP-2023 for at least half of all drinking fountains on a project. These filling stations may be stand-alone or an integral component of the drinking fountain. This requirement is intended to improve water efficiency and sanitation of public drinking water while reducing the environmental effects of single-use plastic bottles. In addition, some drinking fountains are equipped with programmable settings to turn off the refrigeration portion of the unit when the facility is not in use, thus saving energy. Most plumbing codes require a minimum number of drinking fountains for new buildings based on occupancy group and occupant load. For existing buildings undergoing renovations, it is recommended that building owners consider installing water-bottle filling stations for drinking fountains as part of project upgrades, especially in larger office buildings or schools. Several manufacturers of drinking fountains provide retrofit kits for water-bottle filling stations that are relatively inexpensive to install and can offset the cost of bottled water purchases.
601.3.2.2 (6.3.2.2)
Appliances.a.Clothes washers and dishwashers installed within dwelling units shall comply with the best international (or equivalent national) practices approved by AHJ. Maximum water use shall be as follows:1.Clothes washers (residential)—Maximum water factor (WF) of 5.4 gal/ft3 of drum capacity (0.72 L/L of drum capacity).2.Dishwashers—Standard-size dishwashers shall have a maximum WF of 3.8 gal/full operating cycle (14.3 L/full operating cycle). Compact sizes shall have a maximum WF of 3.5 gal/full operating cycle (13.2 L/full operating cycle). Standard and compact size shall be defined by the criteria given in the best international (or equivalent national) practices approved by AHJ. [See also the energy efficiency requirements in Section 701.4.7.3 (7.4.7.3).]b. Clothes washers installed in publicly accessible spaces (Informative Note: e.g., multifamily and hotel common areas), and coin- and card-operated clothes washers of any size used in laundromats, shall have a maximum WF of 4.0 gal/ft3 of drum capacity normal cycle (0.53 L/L of drum capacity normal cycle). [See also the energy efficiency requirements in Section 701.4.7.3 (7.4.7.3).]c.Commercial dishwashers in commercial food-service facilities shall meet all the requirements as listed in the best international (or equivalent national) practices approved by AHJ.Section 601.3.2.2 (§ 6.3.2.2) lists the requirements for residential clothes washers and dishwashers installed in individual dwelling units. While new multifamily residential projects may or may not include both appliances in an individual dwelling unit, most include an automatic dishwasher. For the purpose of the GBCP-2023, both appliances (when specified and installed) must comply with the best international (or equivalent national) practices approved by AHJ and meet the specified maximum water factor requirements. The GBCP-2023 requires a maximum residential clothes washer water factor of 5.4 gallons per cubic foot (0.72 L/L) of drum capacity. For energy efficiency requirements related to residential clothes washers, see Section 701.4.7.3 (§ 7.4.7.3).Regardless of size, clothes washers installed in publicly accessible spaces including coin- or card-operated washers are subject to a maximum water factor (WF) of 4.0 gallons per cubic foot (0.53 L/L) of drum capacity normal cycle. See Section 701.4.7.3 (§ 7.4.7.3) for energy efficiency requirements.Commercial dishwashers typically are used in restaurants, dining halls, health care facilities, catering, institutional kitchens, and other food service facilities that reuse dishware and utensils. Unlike residential dishwashers, commercial dishwashers are capable of washing, rinsing, and sanitizing large quantities of soiled dishes in a relatively short period. The GBCP-2023 does not provide specific maximum water consumption thresholds for commercial dishwashers but rather requires compliance with the best international (or equivalent national) practices approved by AHJ requirements for Commercial Dishwashers, Version 2.0.Commercial dishwashers are available in different designs to suit the needs of the kitchen. ENERGY STAR addresses this by providing criteria for each dishwasher type. Additionally, commercial dishwashers use either high-temperature water or chemicals to sanitize dishware. Dishwashers that use high-temperature water to sanitize dishware reduce chemical use at the expense of increased energy consumption. Dishwashers that use chemicals (low temperature) to sanitize dishware reduce energy consumption at the cost of increased chemical and water use. Typical water consumption limits are replicated in Table 6-A. Commercial dishwasher water use is expressed in one of three units depending on the application:• GPR = gallons per rack• GPSF = gallons per square foot of rack• GPH = gallons per hourEach type of dishwasher must not exceed the respective water use value and units used by the ENERGY STAR program.
Table 6-A Maximum Allowable Water Consumption of Commercial Dishwashers (Source: https://www.energystar.gov/products/spec)
Water Consumption Requirements for Commercial Dishwashers
Machine Type High-Temp Efficiency RequirementsWater Consumption∗ Low-Temp Efficiency RequirementsWater Consumption∗
Under counter ≤ 3.3 LPR ≤ 7.2 LPR
Stationary single-tank door ≤ 3.3 LPR ≤ 4.4 LPR
Pot, pan, and utensil ≤ 0.014 LPSM ≤ 0.014 LPSM
Single-tank conveyor ≤ 2.6 LPR ≤ 3.0 LPR
Multiple-tank conveyor ≤ 2.0 GPR ≤ 2.0 GPR
Single-tank flight type LPH ≤ 11.25x + 208.2 LPH ≤ 11.26x + 208.2
Multiple-tank flight type LPH ≤ 18.75x + 64.3 LPH ≤ 18.75x + 64.3
∗ LPR = L/rack; LPSM = liters/m2 of rack; LPH = L/h; x = maximum conveyor speed (0.00508 meters per second as verified through NSF 3 certification) conveyor belt width (m).
601.3.2.3 (6.3.2.3)
HVAC systems and equipment.a. Once-through cooling with potable water is prohibited.b. The design of open-circuit cooling towers for air-conditioning systems, including the materials used to construct them and their water treatment systems, shall not allow water exchange (blowdown) until one or more of the parameters in Table 601.3.2.3 (6.3.2.3) reaches 90% or more of the maximum value specified in Table 601.3.2.3 (6.3.2.3). The system shall be tolerant of pH levels between 7.0 and 9.2.c. The materials of construction for the water cooling system that comes in contact with cooling tower water shall be of the type that can operate and be maintained within the limits set in Table 601.3.2.3 (6.3.2.3).d. Open-circuit cooling towers, closed-circuit cooling towers, and evaporative condensers shall be equipped with makeup and water meters, conductivity controllers, and overflow alarms in accordance with the thresholds listed in Table 601.3.4.1B (6.3.4.1B). Cooling towers shall be equipped with drift eliminators that reduce drift to 0.002% or less of the recirculated water flow for counter flow towers and 0.005% or less of the recirculated water flow for cross-flow towers.e. Building projects located in regions where the ambient mean coincident wet-bulb temperature at 1% design cooling conditions is greater than or equal to 72°F (22°C) shall have a system for collecting condensate from air-conditioning units with a capacity greater than 65,000 Btu/h (19 kW), and the condensate shall be recovered for reuse.
TABLE 601.3.2.3 (TABLE 6.3.2.3)RECIRCULATING WATER PROPERTIES FOR OPEN-CIRCUIT COOLING-TOWER CONSTRUCTION
RECIRCULATING WATER PARAMETERS MAXIMUM VALUE
Conductivity (micro-ohms) 3300
Total dissolved solids (ppm) 2050
Total alkalinity as CaCO3 (ppm) excluding galvanized steel 600
Total alkalinity as CaCO3 (ppm) galvanized steel (passivated) 500
Calcium hardness as CaCO3 (ppm) 600
Chlorides as Cl (ppm) 300
Sulfates (ppm) 250
Silica (ppm) 150
Langelier Saturation Index (LSI) +2.8
In an effort to eliminate waste, the GBCP-2023 prohibits the use of potable water for once-through cooling and requires that cooling towers be equipped with efficient drift eliminators to reduce the amount of water lost in the exhaust air [see Section 601.3.2.3 for specific performance details].The GBCP-2023 requires condensate recovery and reuse on air-conditioning systems under the following two conditions:In regions where the ambient mean coincident wet-bulb temperature at 1% cooling design condition is 72°F (22°C) or higher. This ambient air humidity requirement ensures that sufficient moisture exists in the outdoor air to justify condensate reclamation.In addition, the air-conditioning system must have a capacity greater than 65,000 Btu/h (19 kW) to ensure sufficient cooling capacity exists to generate a useful volume of condensate.Although not required by this code, condensate recovery in arid climates may have merit where high internal latent loads require dehumidification and significantly contribute to the condensate generation. Additionally, smaller air-conditioning systems may also be able to reduce water use by recovering condensate. For any mechanical cooling system, the rate of condensate generation will vary significantly based on the outdoor airflow rate, the outdoor air humidity, and the indoor cooling load. However, a 19 kW cooling coil in a typical office application with a 72°F (22°C) outdoor air wet-bulb temperature will generate 4 to 15 L of condensate per hour. To determine the annual anticipated condensation volume for a specific application, a psychrometric analysis of the annual cooling conditions must be performed. The necessary information to perform the calculation can be extracted from an energy simulation or typical meteorological year (TMY) data.Condensate cannot be used for human consumption due to the possible presence of high levels of heavy metals, but it is often an excellent candidate for use in irrigation, as it is generally free of minerals and has a total dissolved solids (TDS) level at or near zero.Cooling TowersSection 601.3.2.3 describes minimum values for cooling-tower cycles of concentration (COC). The range of these requirements, based on total dissolved solids levels in the makeup water, is summarized in Figure 6-C.The rate of makeup water use, and thus building-related water consumption, for cooling towers is dependent on losses from evaporation, blowdown and drift.M = B + D + Ewhere:M = makeup water, L/sB = blowdown, discharge to sewer, L/sD = drift, water loss to the atmosphere as liquid droplets, L/sE = evaporation, L/sThe COC factor is calculated as the ratio of makeup water rate to the sum of blowdown and drift loss rates.A higher COC saves water because the water stays in the system longer. However, in some cases, this also increases requirements for chemical treatment. A lower COC results in higher water use but generally also makes water treatment simpler.While COC is an important factor in determining the ultimate water use of a cooling tower, it is also closely linked with the chemical treatment regime. As water flows through a cooling tower system, the water becomes more concentrated with minerals as the water is evaporated. As a result, these systems require continuous blowdown or “bleed off,” with makeup water added, to maintain an acceptable concentration of minerals (measured as total dissolved solids). As a result, the COC factors in the GBCP-2023 are directly tied to makeup water quality.Implementation of a comprehensive water treatment system (sometimes using acid treatment, cautiously regarding the materials of construction) is one strategy for compliance with the GBCP-2023. It is important to consider the pH/alkalinity associated with increased COC. Standard galvanic protection may be susceptible to “white rust” associated with higher pH levels.
601.3.2.4 (6.3.2.4)
Roofs.a. The use of potable water or reclaimed water for roof spray systems to thermally condition the roof shall be prohibited.Exception: Where approved, on-site treated reclaimed water or Harvested rainwater may be used for roof spray systems.b. In-ground irrigation systems on vegetated roofs using potable water or off-site treated reclaimed water shall be prohibited.c. The use of potable water or reclaimed water for irrigation of vegetated (green) roofs is prohibited after the vegetation establishment period or 18 months after the initial installation, whichever is less. After the landscape plants are established, the irrigation system using potable water or reclaimed water shall be removed from site.Exception: Where approved, on-site treated reclaimed water or Harvested rainwater may be used for vegetated roof irrigation systems during and after the vegetation establishment period.The process of roof irrigation is sometimes used to control high indoor air temperatures in manufacturing facilities without mechanical cooling. The use of potable or municipal reclaimed water for this process is prohibited by Section 601.3.2.4 (§ 6.3.2.4). Although additional cooling or energy savings may be achieved by this process, it is at the expense of significant water consumption. The code does, however, make an exception for on-site treated reclaimed water that is not potable water. Use of on-site treated reclaimed water must be approved by the Local Authority.The benefits of vegetated roofs are many (e.g., the reduction of stormwater runoff, provision of habitat in urban areas, reduction of heat island, etc.); however, these benefits may be negated if regular irrigation is required to sustain the vegetation. Therefore, it is typically best for projects that include vegetated roofs to use drought-tolerant or native plants adapted to the local environment that do not require irrigation once established.Regardless of the vegetation species, temporary irrigation is typically needed to promote seed germination and growth or to overcome transplanting stress. Vegetation is considered established when natural precipitation alone will sustain the vegetation. To provide the necessary moisture prior to establishment, vegetated roofs may be irrigated with potable or reclaimed water during an 18-month landscape establishment period. The irrigation system used during this establishment period must be an above-ground temporary system and removed once the vegetation is established or 18 months after the installation, whichever is less.
601.3.2.5 (6.3.2.5)
Commercial food service operations.(Informative Note: e.g., restaurants, cafeterias, food preparation kitchens, caterers, etc.). Commercial food service operations:a. Shall use high-efficiency pre-rinse spray valves (i.e., valves that function at 1.3 gpm [4.9 L/min] or less and comply with a 26 second performance requirement when tested in accordance with ASTM F2324),b. Shall use dishwashers that comply with the requirements of the best international (or equivalent national) practices approved by AHJ for Commercial Dishwashers,c. Shall use boiler-less/connectionless food steamers that consume no more than 2.0 gal/h (7.5 L/h) in the full operational mode,d. Shall use combination ovens that consume not more than 10 gal/h (38 L/h) in the full operational mode,e. Shall use air-cooled ice machines that comply with the requirements of the best international (or equivalent national) practices approved by AHJ for Commercial Ice Machines, andf. Shall be equipped with hands-free faucet controllers (foot controllers, sensor activated, or other) for all faucet fittings within the food preparation area of the kitchen and the dish room, including pot sinks and washing sinks.Commercial food service operations are among the largest users of water in the commercial sector. This section provides criteria for building projects that include commercial food service operations, such as in a café, or restaurant. These criteria correspond with commercially available equipment options that reduce water use without compromising health, sanitary, or culinary standards. Equipment that complies with these standards has been demonstrated to offer substantial savings in both energy and water.The GBCP-2023 specifies maximum water flow rates for prerinse spray valves, food steamers, and combination ovens.The GBCP-2023 requires that commercial food service operations be equipped with hands-free faucet controllers for all faucet fittings within the food preparation areas of the kitchen and the dish room, including pot sinks and washing sinks. Hands-free faucet controllers typically are foot controlled or sensor activated, but other options exist that may be preferable for certain food service operations. In addition to saving water, these hands-free controllers also enhance sanitation.
601.3.2.6 (6.3.2.6)
Medical and laboratory facilities.Medical and laboratory facilities, including clinics, hospitals, medical centers, physician and dental offices, and medical and nonmedical laboratories of all types shall:a. Use only water-efficient steam sterilizers equipped with (1) water-tempering devices that allow water to flow only when the discharge of condensate or hot water from the sterilizer exceeds 140°F (60°C), and (2) mechanical vacuum equipment in place of venturi-type vacuum systems for vacuum sterilizers.b. Use film processor water-recycling units where large-frame X-ray films of more than 6 in. (150 mm) in either length or width are processed. Small dental X-ray equipment is exempt from this requirement.c. Use digital imaging and radiography systems where the digital networks are installed.d. Use a dry-hood scrubber system or, if the applicant determines that a wet-hood scrubber system is required, the scrubber shall be equipped with a water recirculation system. For perchlorate hoods and other applications where a hood wash-down system is required, the hood shall be equipped with self-closing valves on those wash-down systems.e. Use only dry vacuum pumps unless fire and safety codes (Informative Note: e.g., Building Code of Pakistan – Fire Safety Provisions 2016) for explosive, corrosive, or oxidative gases require a liquid ring pump.f. Use only efficient water treatment systems that comply with the following criteria:1. For all filtration processes, pressure gages shall determine and display when to backwash or change cartridges.2. For all ion exchange and softening processes, recharge cycles shall be set by volume of water treated or based on conductivity or hardness.3. For reverse osmosis and nano-filtration equipment with capacity greater than 27 gal/h (100 L/h), reject water shall not exceed 60% of the feed water and shall be used as scrubber feed water or for other beneficial uses on the project site.4. Simple distillation is not acceptable as a means of water purification.g. With regard to food service operations within medical facilities, comply with Section 601.3.2.5 (6.3.2.5).Medical and laboratory facilities such as hospitals, clinics, medical centers, and physician and dental offices also comprise some of the largest water users in the commercial-institutional sector. Section 601.3.2.6 (§ 6.3.2.6) provides specific requirements for medical and laboratory facilities of all types, including the following types of equipment and processes: steam sterilizers, large-frame X-ray film processing equipment, digital imaging and radiography systems, hood scrubbers, vacuum pumps, and water treatment processes, including filtration processes, ion exchange and softening processes, and reverse osmosis and nanofiltration equipment. Food service operations within medical facilities must comply with Section 601.3.2.5 (§ 6.3.2.5).
601.3.3 (6.3.3)
Hot-water distribution.Hot-water distribution pipes shall be in accordance with Section 601.3.3.1 (6.3.3.1) and Section 601.3.3.2 (6.3.3.2).Lengthy hot water piping wastes water and energy while users wait for hot water to be delivered to hot water fixtures. Pipe insulation will help reduce the amount of heat loss but the longer the pipe length (between source and point of use) and the longer the duration between hot water draws, the more water and energy will be wasted due to the cool-down of standing water in hot water pipes.
601.3.3.1 (6.3.3.1)
Maximum allowable pipe volume. The maximum volume of water in the pipes between the source of hot or tempered water and the fixtures shall be 64 oz (1.9 L) where the source of hot or tempered water is a water heater, and shall be 24 oz (0.71 L) where the source of hot or tempered water is a circulation loop pipe or an electrically heat-traced pipe. For the purpose of Section 601.3.3 (6.3.3), the source of hot or tempered water shall be the point of connection to a water heater, heat-traced pipe, or a circulation loop.The volume shall be the sum of the internal volumes of pipe, fittings, valves, meters, and manifolds between the source of hot or tempered water and the termination of the fixture supply pipe. The volume shall be determined using Table 601.3.3.1 (6.3.3.1). The volume contained within fixture shutoff valves, flexible water supply connectors to a fixture fitting, or within a fixture fitting shall not be included in the water volume determination. Where the source of hot or tempered water is a circulation loop pipe or an electrically heat-traced pipe, the volume shall include the portion of the fitting on the source pipe that supplies water to the fixture. Where the type of pipe is unknown or not specifically included in the table, the generic pipe column shall be used to determine the volume.Exception: Public lavatory fixtures.
TABLE 601.3.3.1 (TABLE 6.3.3.1)INTERNAL VOLUME OF PIPE OR TUBE IN I-P (SI)
OUNCES (LITERS) OF WATER PER FOOT (METER) OF PIPE
NOMINAL SIZE, IN. (DIMENSION NOMINAL [DN], MM) GENERIC PIPE COPPER TYPE L CPVC CTS SDR 11 PEX CTS SDR 9
1/4 (8) 0.33 (0.03) 0.52 (0.05) 0.37 (0.04) 0.33 (0.03)
5/16 (9) 0.5 (0.05) NA (NA) NA (NA) 0.48 (0.05)
3/8 (10) 0.75 (0.07) 0.97 (0.09) 0.75 (0.07) 0.68 (0.07)
1/2 (15) 1.5 (0.15) 1.55 (0.15) 1.25 (0.12) 1.18 (0.11)
5/8 (18) 2 (0.19) 2.23 (0.22) NA (NA) 1.78 (0.17)
3/4 (20) 3 (0.29) 3.22 (0.31) 2.67 (0.26) 2.35 (0.23)
1 (25) 5 (0.49) 5.47 (0.53) 4.43 (0.43) 3.91 (0.38)
11/4 (32) 8 (0.78) 8.36 (0.81) 6.61 (0.64) 5.81 (0.56)
11/2 (40) 11 (1.07) 11.83 (1.15) 9.22 (0.89) 8.09 (0.78)
2 (50) 18 (1.75) 20.58 (2.00) 15.79 (1.53) 13.86 (1.34)
NA = No value provided based on lack of availability of pipe in this size.Section 601.3.3.1 (§ 6.3.3.1) limits the volume of water in the pipes between the hot or tempered water source and the point of use to 64 oz (1.9 L) where the hot or tempered water source is a water heater, and 24 oz (0.71 L) where the hot or tempered water source is a circulation loop pipe or an electrically heat-traced pipe. Pipe volume is determined in accordance with Table 601.3.3.1 (§ 6.3.3.1) and shall be the sum of the internal volumes of pipe, fittings, valves, meters, and manifolds between the hot or tempered water source and the point of use. Where the type of pipe is unknown or not included in the table, the generic pipe column is required to be used to determine the pipe volume. Public lavatory fixtures are exempt from the volume limits of Section 601.3.3.1 (§ 6.3.3.1).
601.3.3.2 (6.3.3.2)
Maximum length.The maximum pipe length from the source of hot or tempered water to the termination of the fixture supply pipe serving any plumbing fixture or appliance shall not exceed 50 ft (15 m) of developed length.Section 601.3.3.2 (§ 6.3.3.2) further limits hot water pipe length from the hot or tempered water source to the point of use to 50 feet (15 m) of total developed length. Developed length is the length of a pipeline measured along the centerline of the pipe and fittings. This provision is consistent with the International Plumbing Code®.
601.3.4 (6.3.4)
Special water features.Water use shall comply with the following:a. Ornamental fountains and other ornamental water features shall be supplied either by alternate on-site sources of water (Like Harvested Rainwater) or by municipally reclaimed water delivered by the local water utility. Fountains and other features equipped with automatic water refilling valves shall be equipped with (1) makeup water meters, (2) leak detection devices that shut off water flow if a leak of more than 1.0 gal/h (3.8 L/h) is detected, and (3) equipment to recirculate, filter, and treat all water for reuse within the system.Exception: Where alternate on-site sources of water or municipally reclaimed water are not available within 500 ft (150 m) of the building project site, potable water is allowed to be used for water features with less than 10,000 gal (38,000 L) capacity.b. Pools and spas:1. Recover filter backwash water for reuse on landscaping or other applications, or treat and reuse backwash water within the system.2. For filters with removable cartridges, only reusable cartridges and systems shall be used. For filters with backwash capability, use only pool filter equipment that includes a pressure drop gage to determine when the filter needs to be backwashed and a sight glass enabling the operator to determine when to stop the backwash cycle.3. Pool splash troughs, if provided, shall drain back into the pool system.The GBCP-2023 limits water in ornamental fountains and features to alternate on-site sources of water and municipally reclaimed water delivered by the local water utility. Potable water is only permitted where alternate on-site sources of water or municipally reclaimed water are not available within 500 feet (150 m) of the building project site and the feature has a capacity less than 10,000 gallons (38,000 L).Fountains and other features equipped with automatic water refilling valves are required to be equipped with:• Makeup water meters.• Leak detection devices with automatic shutoff controls that shut off water flow if a leak of more than 1.0 gal/h (3.8 L/h) is detected.• Recirculating systems with the necessary filters and treatment to ensure maximum reuse within the fountain or feature.A wide variety of configurations and health-based regulatory categories exist for water features. The majority of features likely to be present in a commercial building project are decorative fountains, reflecting pools and ornamental ponds. These features must comply with the requirements of the GBCP-2023, meaning that nonpotable water sources and recirculating systems are required.In some cases, a project may include interactive water features, designed as play areas and intended for human contact. As these features will be subject to stringent health requirements and required to use potable water, they should be treated as pools and comply with the requirements for pools and spas.Pools and SpasUnlike ornamental water features, pools and spas are subject to health codes that may prohibit the use of nonpotable water and recirculating systems. As a result, the requirements for pools and spas are focused on the operation of filters, the filter backwash systems, and splash troughs.Depending on the type of pool or spa in the project and the type of filtration system selected, the backwash water quality may vary considerably. It may be advantageous to combine recovered backwash water with other sources, such as HVAC blowdown, HVAC condensate, or treated wastewater, to take advantage of dilution. Where the reuse of backwash water is difficult or costly, selection of a filtration system with removable and reusable filter cartridges may be an effective solution.
601.3.5 (6.3.5)
Water consumption measurement.
601.3.5.1 (6.3.5.1)
Consumption management.Measurement devices with remote communication capability shall be provided to collect water consumption data for the domestic water supply to the building. Both potable and reclaimed water entering the building project shall be monitored or sub-metered. In addition, for individual leased, rented, or other tenant or subtenant space within any building totaling in excess of 50,000 ft2 (5000 m2), separate sub-meters shall be provided. For subsystems with multiple similar units, such as multicell cooling towers, only one measurement device is required for the subsystem. Any project or building, or tenant or subtenant space within a project or building, such as a commercial car wash or aquarium, shall be submetered where consumption is projected to exceed 1000 gal/day (3800 L/day).Measurement devices with remote capability shall be provided to collect water use data for each water supply source (Informative Note: e.g., potable water, reclaimed water, rainwater) to the building project that exceeds the thresholds listed in Table 601.3.5.1A (6.3.5.1A). Utility company service entrance/interval meters are allowed to be used.Provide sub-metering with remote communication measurement to collect water use data for each of the building subsystems if such subsystems are sized above the threshold levels listed in Table 601.3.5.1B (6.3.5.1B).The ongoing measurement of water consumption is critical to the long-term management of the project and its consumption of resources. A significant fraction of the potential savings created by the requirements in the GBCP-2023 may not be realized without an effective measurement program. Although many facilities actively meter, track, benchmark, and assess energy and energy cost performance, active water use management is not widespread in the building industry. Like energy management, a successful water management plan consists of multiple elements: hardware (metering), software (data collection), and operations staff resources (data analysis and troubleshooting). As such, plans for managing water efficiently must begin during building design and be carried through operations seamlessly. To create this connection, the strategies undertaken to comply with the requirements in this section must be closely coordinated with the GBCP-2023, Section 1001.9.2 (§ 10.9.2), which contains the requirements for tracking water consumption as part of the plan for operation.Section 601.3.5 (§ 6.3.5) of the GBCP-2023 specifies the requirements for measuring and monitoring water consumption for the primary purpose of identifying anomalies that might indicate building and process system breakdowns. When connected to a real-time building management system (BMS), this type of measurement and monitoring allows such breakdowns to be observed, addressed, and corrected quickly.
TABLE 601.3.5.1A (TABLE 6.3.5.1A)WATER SUPPLY SOURCE MEASUREMENT THRESHOLDS
WATER SOURCE MAIN MEASUREMENT THRESHOLD
Potable water 1000 gal/day (3800 L/day)
Municipally reclaimed water 1000 gal/day (3800 L/day)
Alternate sources of water 500 gal/day (1900 L/day)
TABLE 601.3.5.1B (TABLE 6.3.5.1B)SUBSYSTEM WATER MEASUREMENT THRESHOLDS
SUBSYSTEM SUBMETERING THRESHOLD
Cooling towers (meter on makeup water and blowdown) Cooling tower flow through tower > 500 gpm (30 L/s)
Evaporative coolers Makeup water > 0.6 gpm (0.04 L/s)
Steam and hot-water boilers > 500,000 Btu/h (150 kW) input
Total irrigated landscape area with controllers > 25,000 ft2 (2500 m2)
Separate campus or project buildings Consumption > 1000 gal/day (3800 L/day)
Separately leased or rental space Consumption > 1000 gal/day (3800 L/day)
Any large water-using process Consumption > 1000 gal/day (3800 L/day)
601.3.5.2 (6.3.5.2)
Consumption data collection.All building measurement devices, monitoring systems, and sub meters installed to comply with the threshold limits in Section 601.3.5.1 (6.3.5.1) shall be configured to communicate water consumption data to a meter data management system. At a minimum, meters shall provide daily data and shall record hourly consumption of water.All projects that use more than 1,000 gallons per day (3800 L/day) of water are required to install measurement devices that can automatically communicate with a central data management system in order to archive water consumption data and identify trends. Meters that must be read manually and summary data from utility bills are not sufficient to satisfy this requirement.Apart from the building-level utility meters required for main water sources, submeters may be required for specific subsystems and in multitenant buildings. See Table 6-E for a summary of the thresholds for building-level meters and submeters. While submetering of tenant spaces is clearly valuable in cases where the tenants pay for individual utilities through their leases, it can be equally valuable in providing the detailed information necessary for building managers and engineers to troubleshoot leaks and discover additional saving opportunities during operations.To obtain the hourly recording of flow rates required in this section, it is critical to select meters of the right size and type. For example, positive displacement meters are more sensitive at lower flow rates and are commonly used in residential and small commercial applications. Multijet or turbine meters are capable of measuring higher flow rates and are more common in commercial and industrial applications. If the facility has highly variable flow rates, a combi- nation meter that uses both technologies may be necessary to collect accurate information.Systems with flow rates below those requiring measurement by the GBCP-2023 may also benefit from submetering water use, especially those systems subject to variable conditions. For example, in addition to the basic submeters for multicell cooling-tower makeup and overflow, consider adding additional meters to each cooling tower cell. Following the other requirements of the GBCP-2023, it is likely that the blowdown rate will be below normal expectations, and it may be possible to obtain corresponding reductions to the facility sewer charges.
Table 6-EWater Consumption Measurement Thresholds
Building-Level Measurement
Water Source Threshold above which Metering Is Required
Potable water 1,000 gal/day (3800 L/day)
Municipally reclaimed water 1,000 gal/day (3800 L/day)
Alternate sources of water 500 gal/day (1900 L/day)
System/Equipment-Level Submetering
Subsystem Threshold above which Metering Is Required
Cooling towers Flow through tower > 500 gpm (30 L/s)
Evaporative coolers Makeup water > 0.6 gpm (0.04 L/s)
Steam and hot-water boilers > 500,000 Btu/h (50 kW) input
Total irrigated landscape area > 25,000 ft² (2500 m²)
Separate campus/project buildings 1,000 gal/day (3800 L/day)
Separately leased/rental spaces 1,000 gal/day (3800 L/day)
Large water using process 1,000 gal/day (3800 L/day)
Tenant-Level Submetering
Tenant Characteristic Threshold above which Metering Is Required
Size > 50,000 ft² (5000 m²) space
Consumption > 1,000 gal/day (3800 L/day)
601.3.5.3 (6.3.5.3)
Data storage and retrieval.The meter data management system shall be capable of electronically storing water meter, monitoring systems, and sub meter data and creating user reports showing calculated hourly, daily, monthly, and annual water consumption for each measurement device and sub meter and provide alarm notification capabilities as needed to support the requirements of the water user efficiency plan for operation in Section 1001.9.2 (10.9.2).While it is important for projects to install measurement equipment to monitor various water end uses, it is equally important that building operators collect and evaluate the resulting data and use trends. Consistent water use data inform management staff of typical use patterns and alert them to any leaks or problems that may have arisen in the project. Monitoring systems must be capable of recording and electronically storing the collected data on an hourly, daily, monthly, and annual basis and must be equipped to alert operators to problems in real time. The design of this system needs to be coordinated with appropriate elements of the operations plan defined in Section 1001.9.2 (§ 10.9.2).
601.3.6 (6.3.6)
Water softeners.Water softeners shall comply with Sections 601.3.6.1 (6.3.6.1) through 601.3.6.4 (6.3.6.4).
601.3.6.1 (6.3.6.1)
Demand-initiated regeneration.Water softeners shall be equipped with demand-initiated regeneration control systems. Timer-based control systems shall be prohibited.
601.3.6.2 (6.3.6.2)
Water consumption.During regeneration, water softeners shall have a maximum water consumption of 4 gal (15.1 L) per 1000 gr (17.1 g/L) of hardness removed, as measured in accordance with NSF 44.
601.3.6.3 (6.3.6.3)
Waste connections.Waste water from water softener regeneration shall not discharge to reclaimed water collection systems and shall discharge in accordance with the Pakistan Plumbing Code.
601.3.6.4 (6.3.6.4)
Efficiency and listing.Water softeners that regenerate in place, that are connected to the water system they serve by piping not exceeding 11/4 in. (31.8 mm) in diameter, or that have a volume of 3 ft3 (0.085 m3) or more of cation exchange media shall have a rated salt efficiency of not less than 4000 gr of total hardness exchange per pound of salt (571 g of total hardness exchange per kilogram of salt), based on sodium chloride equivalency, and shall be listed and labeled in accordance with NSF 44. All other water softeners shall have a rated salt efficiency of not less than 3500 gr of total hardness exchange per pound of salt (500 g of total hardness exchange per kilogram of salt), based on sodium chloride equivalency.Sections 601.3.6.1 (§ 6.3.6.1) through 601.3.6.4 (§ 6.3.6.4); Water softeners installed for commercial or multifamily uses must include technologies and controls to reduce water consumption. These include demand-initiated regeneration control systems, maximum levels of water consumption of 4 gallons per 1,000 grams of hardness removed (per NSF 44), wastewater discharge connection requirements per the Pakistan Plumbing Code, and minimum salt efficiency ratings. Altogether, these efficiency requirements are effective at reducing water consumption for the water softening system and may result in fewer detergents and cleaners needed for water treatment, a reduction in the hard-water buildup inside pipes and machinery, and equipment savings from reduced system wear. In addition, water softeners that utilize lower levels of salt during regeneration will help keep contributions of chloride lower in discharge water, which can be a significant benefit for wastewater treatment plants and local ecosystems. For these reasons, the GBCP-2023 stipulates requirements for demand-initiated regeneration controls on all water softeners. Furthermore, it requires NSF 44 compliance for smaller water softeners and places strict limits on hardness exchange per pound of salt for larger systems that fall outside the NSF 44 standard.
601.3.7 (6.3.7)
Reverse osmosis water treatment systems.Reverse osmosis systems shall be equipped with an automatic shutoff valve that prevents the production of reject water when there is no demand for treated water. Point-of-use reverse osmosis treatment systems for drinking water shall be listed and labeled in accordance with NSF 58.The GBCP-2023 has requirements for reverse osmosis and on-site reclaimed water treatment systems to reduce the likelihood of excessive water use caused by poor design of water treatment and filtration systems. In addition, NSF referenced standards permit the use of treated water and wastewater, as it is often of suitable quality for many on-site uses.The GBCP-2023 requires that reverse osmosis water treatment systems be equipped with an automatic shutoff valve to prevent the production of reject water when there is no demand for treated water. Smaller, point-of-use units for drinking water must follow and be listed and labeled in accordance with NSF 58.
601.3.8 (6.3.8)
On-site reclaimed water treatment systems.On-site reclaimed water treatment systems, including greywater reuse treatment systems and waste water treatment systems, used to produce nonpotable water for use in water closet and urinal flushing, surface irrigation, and similar applications shall be listed and labeled in accordance with NSF 350.On-site reclaimed water treatment systems are required to be listed and labeled in accordance with NSF 350. NSF 350 sets “water quality requirements for the reduction of chemical and microbiological contaminants for nonpotable water use.” The protections in NSF 350 are crucial for allowing treated wastewater to be used in indoor recycled water uses, such as toilet and urinal flushing, and for outdoor irrigation uses.
601.3.9 (6.3.9)
[JO] Dual water supply plumbing.Where sufficient supply of reclaimed water or alternate on-site sources of water is available, or planned to be available, within five years of completed building construction, the water supply system within the building shall be installed to allow the supply of reclaimed or alternative water to all urinals and water closets.Exceptions:1. Existing buildings under renovation, where the water supply to the urinals and water closets within the building is to remain intact, shall not be required to supply nonpotable water to urinals and water closets.2. Urinals and water closets designed to operate without the use of water shall not be required to have alternate or reclaimed water supply to the fixture.Globally, fresh and potable water supplies face mounting pressure as cities increase in density and regional droughts or water scarcity affect regions. As technology for water treatment and filtering systems get better and more economical, building plumbing systems can rely on reclaimed water and alternative on-site sources of water for uses where nonpotable water is suitable. Of all interior uses of potable water, toilets and urinals represent approximately 30 percent of water use in commercial buildings and offer a large opportunity to preserve potable water resources.Where sufficient supply of reclaimed water or alternative on-site sources of water is available, or planned to be available, within five years of completed building construction, the GBCP-2023 requires that the water supply system within the building be installed to allow the supply of reclaimed or alternative water to all urinals and water closets. Dual water supply plumbing systems can achieve the greatest benefits when they are included as part of an integrative design process (see Informative Appendix F for more on Integrated Design). While adding dual plumbing systems in new construction applications will add nominal costs to the overall project (it typically adds less than 10 percent to the total project plumbing costs), the ability to replumb an existing building to accommodate alternate water sources is usually cost prohibitive. If not included during new construction or major renovation, most buildings simply cannot cost-effectively take advantage of alternate sources of water.Please note that Section 601.3.9 (§ 6.3.9) provides the following two exceptions:1. Existing buildings under renovation where water supply to urinals and water closets are to remain intact and are not within the scope of work.2. Urinals and water closets designed to operate without the use of water.
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
•
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.