======================================================================
Chapter 8 Indoor Environmental Quality (Ieq)
======================================================================

Chapter 7 Energy Efficiency - Green Building Code of Pakistan with Commentary
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2023
Green Building Code of Pakistan with Commentary
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2023 Green Building Code of Pakistan with Commentary 2021 Building Code of Pakistan 2024 International Energy Conservation Code and ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1-2022 (IECC) 2024 International Green Construction Code Code (IgCC) 2024 International Zoning Code (IZC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
Pakistan
/
2023 Green Building Code of Pakistan with Commentary
Chapter 7 Energy Efficiency
2023 Green Building Code of Pakistan with Commentary
favorite_border
2021 IGCC
Amended
Version:
Dec 2024
Contents
Notes
Overview
Copyright
Preface
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Chapter 2 Reserved
Chapter 3 Definitions, Abbreviations and Acronyms
Chapter 4 Reserved
Chapter 5 Site Sustainability
Chapter 6 Water Use Efficiency
Chapter 7 Energy Efficiency
701.1 (7.1) Scope.
701.2 (7.2) Compliance.
701.3 (7.3) Mandatory Provisions.
701.4 (7.4) Prescriptive Option.
701.5 (7.5) Performance Option.
Chapter 8 Indoor Environmental Quality (Ieq)
Chapter 9 Materials and Resources
Chapter 10 Construction and Plans for Operation
Informative Appendix a Normative References
Informative Appendix B Prescriptive Equipment Efficiency Tables for the Alternate Reduced Renewables and Increased Equipment Efficiency Approach in Section 701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1)
Informative Appendix C Performance Option for Energy Efficiency
Informative Appendix D Building Concentrations
Informative Appendix E Building Envelope Tables
Informative Appendix F Integrated Design
Informative Appendix G Informative References
Informative Appendix H Option for Energy Efficiency Using the IECC Prescriptive Compliance Path
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
CHAPTER 7 ENERGY EFFICIENCYGENERAL COMMENTSChapter 7 contains requirements related to the effective use of energy in buildings and appliances, and to on-site renewable energy systems. Chapter 7 references the Pakistan Energy Conservation Code (PECC) and contains many provisions that exceed those in the PECC.This chapter uses the ENERGY STAR or equivalent program to establish minimum energy efficiency requirements for products not currently regulated by the Pakistan Authority. To comply with this chapter, the product types listed in Section 701.4.7.3.1 must be ENERGY STAR or equivalent certified or meet the equivalent energy performance thresholds of the applicable ENERGY STAR or equivalent program. ENERGY STAR is a USEPA program that provides energy efficiency criteria. Any energy efficient labeling program that is determined to be equivalent (for example, the Saudi Energy Efficiency Labeling program) may be used for applicable appliances.PURPOSEChapter 7 is designed to regulate energy efficiency and conservation requirements to address energy conservation for all aspects of energy use in both commercial and high-rise residential construction, including heating and ventilating, lighting, water heating and power usage for appliances and building systems. The intent includes carbon reduction as well as the protection of the health and safety of building occupants.
701.1 (7.1) Scope.This section specifies requirements for energy efficiency for buildings and appliances, for on-site renewable energy systems, and for energy measuring.The energy efficiency section of the GBCP-2023 specifies requirements for improving building energy efficiency and measuring building energy consumption. Energy efficiency requirements include those for the building envelope, HVAC, water heating, power, lighting, and other equipment. Requirements in Chapter 7 establish minimum efficiency and on-site renewable energy system design requirements for projects using this code. This is done by requiring metering and trend analysis capabilities that the building operator can use to track building performance.Unless specifically excluded or addressed in Chapter 7, the project must meet the requirements of various Sections (§ 5.4 5.2.1, § 6.4 6.2.1, § 7.4 7.2.1, § 8.4 8.2.1, § 9.4 9.2.1, and § 10.4 10.2.1) of ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1-2019. Note that Informative Appendix H provides an optional compliance path alternative using the IECC for the base prescriptive energy requirements in lieu of ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1-2019.Although an integrated energy design process is not specifically required in Chapter 7, applying an integrated energy design process in the early stages of design will greatly facilitate compliance with Chapter 7 requirements. In an integrated energy design process, design professionals and key stakeholders for the building collaborate to develop a design that both meets the building’s functional requirements and that operates efficiently. The process aims to design building systems that work in harmony to achieve goals.The GBCP-2023, Chapter 7, also establishes mandatory, prescriptive, and performance energy efficiency requirements for building energy end uses. These include on-site renewable systems, appliances, electronics, office equipment, and ENERGY STAR/equivalent equipment. Standard 90.1 does not have prescriptive requirements for renewable energy systems and limits performance tradeoffs to 5 percent of energy consumption. The GBCP-2023 has mandatory requirements for the performance of on-site renewables, as well as prescriptive requirements for on-site renewables, and places no cap on the amount of on-site renewable energy that can be used in the performance approach. Off-site renewable energy delivered or credited to the building project is credited at 75 percent of its contribution, however.Chapter 7 also requires energy measurement devices with data collection, storage, and retrieval and display capabilities for major energy systems that exceed certain minimum connected load thresholds. These metering requirements are intended to allow building owners/operators to track building energy demand and consumption and to identify anomalies in building operations that would affect energy performance.
701.2 (7.2) Compliance.The energy systems shall comply with Section 701.3 (7.3), “Mandatory Provisions,” and either:a.Section 701.4 (7.4), “Prescriptive Option,” orb.Section 701.5 (7.5), “Performance Option.”The GBCP-2023 includes mandatory measures that are required for all projects, as well as the flexibility of the designer’s choice of prescriptive options and performance options, of which compliance with only one is required. To demonstrate compliance with the energy efficiency requirements of the GBCP-2023, projects must meet all mandatory measures in Section 701.3 (§ 7.3), as well as either the prescriptive [Section701.4 (§ 7.4)] or performance requirements [Section 701.5 (§ 7.5)]. The prescriptive path provides specific measures that must be incorporated to demonstrate compliance, and the performance path provides a calculated approach to measure performance against a relevant baseline (see Figure 7-A).The prescriptive path outlines a series of specific energy efficiency requirements that must be met individually to satisfy the requirements of the GBCP-2023. The performance option allows projects to show that their zero-energy performance index and overall annual energy cost and annual CO2e do not exceed the calculated values of a baseline building developed in accordance with the performance option. The details for the performance methodology are described in Section 701.5 (§ 7.5) of this User’s Manual.
Figure 7-AMandatory Provisions
701.3 (7.3) Mandatory provisions.The mandatory energy efficiency provisions apply to all building projects. They are intended to facilitate the efficient operation of the building and to enable future modifications that will allow ongoing energy-efficient operations and enable future on-site renewable energy installations.
701.3.1 (7.3.1) General. Building projects shall be designed to comply with Sections 5.2.1, 6.2.1, 7.2.1, 8.2.1, 9.2.1, and 10.2.1 of ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1.The project must meet the requirements for all compliance paths of Standard 90.1-2019 applicable to the building envelope (§ 5.2.1); HVAC systems (§ 6.2.1); service water heating (§ 7.2.1); power (§ 8.2.1); lighting (§ 9.4.9.2.1); and other equipment (§ 10.2.1), unless modified as part of the GBCP-2023 requirements. The mandatory sections of Standard 90.1 include requirements for the following topics:•Building envelope• Insulation properties and installation procedures•Fenestration and door testing, rating, and labeling• Air leakage, air barrier design, installation, and products• HVAC Systems• Minimum equipment efficiencies• Acceptable methods for calculating heating/cooling loads and pump head• Controls minimum capabilities and required logic• HVAC system construction and insulation• Walk-in coolers and freezers construction and control logic• Refrigerated display case construction and control logic• Liquid-to-liquid heat exchangers•Service water heating• Load calculations for sizing water heaters• Minimum equipment efficiency• Service hot-water piping insulation locations and requirements•Service water heating system control of water temperatures and circulation pump operation• Storage water heater heat trap locations and requirements• Pool heater manual switching, pool heater timeclock operation, and pool covering requirements• Heat traps• Power• Maximum allowable voltage drop through feeder and branch circuits•Automatic receptacle control locations and requirements• Electrical energy monitoring of building receptacle, lighting, and HVAC systems•Low-voltage dry-type distribution transformer efficiency• Lighting• Interior and exterior lighting control• Maximum exterior building lighting power allowance• Functional testing of lighting control system• Dwelling unit lighting• Other Equipment• Minimum electric motor efficiency• Service water pressure booster system design requirements• Allowable elevator cab lighting power and minimum elevator control requirements• Minimum escalator and moving walk control requirements• Whole-building energy monitoring of energy utilities such as fuels, steam, and heating/cooling waterNote: See Informative Appendix H for correlation with the IECC.
701.3.1.1 (7.3.1.1) Climate zones.The assigned climate zone shall be determined using the information available from the Pakistan Metrological Department or any other national agency approved by AHJ. As a simplification, Pakistan can be divided into two climate zones as Climate Zone 1 and Climate Zone 2. These zones are equivalent to ASHRAE Standard Climate Zone 0B and Zone 3, respectively. Arid and hot pat in the South and South West of Pakistan fall in Climate Zone 1 whereas Northern Pakistan with temperate and humid climate is included in Climate Zone 2.Many requirements for energy efficiency in model codes and standards are predicated upon the climate zone in which the building project is located. Users are directed to the Pakistan Energy Conservation Code (PECC) and ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 5.1.4, and ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 169-2013 for applicable requirements.
701.3.2 (7.3.2) On-site renewable energy systems.Building projects shall contain on-site photovoltaic systems with a PV modules capacity equal to 9 Wp/ft2 (96.8 Wp/m2) multiplied by the unshaded horizontal gross roof area for solar radiations varying from 4 to 6 KWh/m2/day. For Onsite Solar Systems connected with the Public Grid requires License from the Electricity Regulator for Generation of Power. Building owner with electricity meter at its name will engage solar entity licensed by Pakistan Engineering Council (PEC) and Alternate Energy Development Board (AEDB) for installation and commissioning of Solar system and then after commissioning of Solar System by Solar Entity as per DISCO SOPs, the Owner will apply for permission from Regulator/DISCO to Generate Power and Energy through an agreement. After inspection of the solar system by electric inspector as per its SOP, DISCO will issue demand note and will provide connectivity of solar system with Public Grid. The solar PV mounting structure height should not be more than 12 ft (3.5 m) above the rooftop. Solar PV modules must be tested as per IEC 61215: 2021and IEC 61730: 2021 and Solar PV Inverters must comply with IEC 61683, IEC 62116 and IEC 61727 and Cables for photovoltaic applications must comply with IEC 62930:2017 and Solar PV mounting structures must withstand minimum 150 KM/hour wind load and must be free from rusting, sagging and vibrations.The building gross roof area used for calculation in Section 701.3.2 (7.3.2) excludes the following:a.Shaded areas that are defined as roof area where direct-beam sunlight is blocked bystructures or natural objects for more than 1500 annual hours between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m.b.Areas of vegetated terrace and roofing systems compliant with Section 501.3.5.5 (5.3.5.5).d.Areas designated for helipads.On-site renewable energy systems are required to be installed on the building project site to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In addition to environmental benefits, the inclusion of renewable energy in a building project’s energy supply will tend to lower building utility costs. Although the payback period of on-site renewable energy is impacted by variations in utility cost, rate structures and incentives, the life-cycle cost savings are typically positive. Where capital costs to install distributed renewable energy systems fall and traditional energy costs rise, on-site renewable energy systems will become increasingly attractive to existing building projects. For many building owners, the ultimate decision to pursue on-site renewable energy will likely be based on financial factors alone, although other environmental and societal impacts should be considered. To reduce on-site renewable energy system installation costs, it is important for high-performance building projects to simplify the installation of on-site renewable energy systems.
701.3.3 (7.3.3) Energy consumption management.
701.3.3.1 (7.3.3.1) Consumption management.Measurement devices with remote communication capability shall be provided to collect energy consumption data for each energy supply source to the building (including gas, electricity, and district energy) that exceeds the thresholds listed in Table 701.3.3.1A (7.3.3.1A). The measurement devices shall have the capability to automatically communicate the energy consumption data to a data acquisition system.For all buildings that exceed the threshold in Table 701.3.3.1A (7.3.3.1A), subsystem measurement devices with remote capability (including current sensors or flowmeters) shall be provided to measure energy consumption data of each subsystem for each use category that exceeds the thresholds listed in Table 701.3.3.1B (7.3.3.1B).The energy consumption data from the subsystem measurement devices shall be automatically communicated to the data acquisition system.
TABLE 701.3.3.1A (TABLE 7.3.3.1A) ENERGY SOURCE THRESHOLDS
ENERGY SOURCE THRESHOLD
Electrical service > 200 kVA
On-site renewable electric power All systems > 1 kVA (peak)
Gas and district services > 1,000,000 Btu/h (300 kW)
Geothermal energy > 1,000,000 Btu/h (300 kW) heating
On-site renewable thermal energy > 100,000 Btu/h (30 kW)
TABLE 701.3.3.1B (TABLE 7.3.3.1B)SYSTEM ENERGY USE THRESHOLDS
USE (TOTAL OF ALL LOADS) SUBSYSTEM THRESHOLD
HVAC system Connected electric load > 100kVA
Connected gas or district services load > 500,000 Btu/h (150 kW)
People moving Sum of all feeders > 50 kVA
Lighting Connected load > 50 kVA
Process and plug process Connected load > 50 kVA
Connected gas or district services load > 250,000 Btu/h (75 kW)
The project must install devices capable of collecting and remotely communicating energy consumption data [Section 701.3.3.1]; automatically acquiring, recording and displaying the data [Section 701.3.3.2]; and storing and retrieving the data [Section 701.3.3.3]. It is not necessary to use utility meters to satisfy the requirements of this credit. It is more likely that the meters used to comply with this credit will be part of an energy management system or the building automation system (BAS). Buildings with low energy consumption and portions of buildings used as residential are exempt from these requirements.Building-Level Energy MeteringFor any energy supply source to the building project that has a service size exceeding the thresholds in Table 701.3.3.1A, measurement devices must be provided that have the capability to record energy consumption on an hourly basis. The electrical service threshold of 200 kVA of connected load is relatively low and will apply to most buildings larger than 1400 to 1900 m2. In single-tenant buildings where multiple services are connected from one service drop, the service rating for the building is determined based on the sum of the individual service ratings. For multiple-tenant building projects where a separate utility meter serves each tenant, the thresholds for different forms of energy are determined based on the sum of the service ratings for all tenants.Submetering Energy MeteringIf building energy metering is required for any building energy source, and the total of all connected loads for a system exceeds the values shown in Table 701.3.3.1B, then metering of the systems served by that energy source is also required. For example, if the building electricity service exceeds 200 kVA, then HVAC system metering is required when the total connected electric HVAC load exceeds 100 kVA; elevator and escalator metering is required when the total connected elevator and escalator load exceeds 50 kVA; lighting metering is required when the total connected lighting load exceeds 50 kVA; and plug and process load metering is required when the total connected plug and process load exceeds 50 kVA. Note that the metering is only required for the combined total subsystem. For example, it is acceptable to group several HVAC units into the same submeter.
701.3.3.2 (7.3.3.2) Energy consumption data collection and display.All building measurement devices shall be configured to automatically communicate the energy data to the data acquisition system. Measurement devices shall provide daily data and shall record hourly energy profiles. Such hourly energy profiles shall be capable of being used to assess building performance at least monthly. The hourly energy profiles shall be displayed.For building projects that have full building management systems (BMSs), the energy consumption management requirements are best accomplished by integrating the required criteria into the design of the BAS. Projects without BASs may choose to develop simple data metering, acquisition and display, and storage solutions within the building site or take advantage of third-party services that provide energy data acquisition, storage, reporting and retrieval. For example, at the whole-building level, it is acceptable to use a utility smart meter to satisfy the metering requirements as long as the building project operators have access to the data; the data are accessible for at least 36 months; and the data acquisition system includes the capability to create hourly, daily, monthly and annual energy consumption reports and to display hourly energy profiles. Whether the data metering and/or acquisition system is owned and operated by building staff or by a third party, the following requirements apply for data transfer, data storage and data reporting:• The system must have the capability to automatically communicate energy consumption data to a remote data acquisition system (a computer or other device that can store and process the data). This may be accomplished by using a BAS with each of the measurement devices included as separate points in the system. It may also be accomplished by installing stand-alone meters that have wireless or wired communications enabled. Or it may be accomplished with a custom system that includes meters and permanent data storage and transfer devices (such as dataloggers with telecommunications enabled).• The connection between the meter and data acquisition device must be configured to allow automatic communication of data from the meter to the data acquisition device.• The combined meter and data acquisition system must allow the data to be recorded at least once hourly so that hourly energy profiles can be generated.• The hourly profiles must contain enough data for the building operator to assess the building’s energy performance. Hourly energy profiles are required to be displayed, but the GBCP-2023 is silent on where such display is to occur, leaving flexibility for the owner’s preferred method.• The data acquisition system must be able to store the measured data for at least 36 months and to create user reports showing hourly, daily, monthly and annual energy consumption associated with each meter. The data can be stored on the same computing device used to collect them or on a separate set of computing devices used for receiving, processing and archiving. The reporting can be accomplished with something as simple as a spreadsheet or with advanced preprogrammed trend analysis and reporting software.Electricity metering at both the building and subsystem levels can be monitored using electric energy meters. These meters are available with a wide range of accuracy from +/-0.2 to 0.5% for utility-grade meters up to +/-3% or more. Utilitygrade meters are not required to satisfy the mandatory metering requirements of this section. Electric energy meters measure the potential (voltage) and current (amperage) of the circuit to be metered. The meter uses this data to calculate instantaneous power and energy. Solid-state meters that use a current transformer for measuring the current are commonly used to accomplish the energy measuring functions required under the GBCP-2023. These meters can be used in a direct interface with a full BAS or as stand-alone devices with wireless or cabled connections to communicate data to a data acquisition system.kWh meters typically perform the calculations converting flow and temperature to energy themselves, so that no further calculations are required by the data acquisition device. Where flowmeters and temperature sensors are used, the data acquisition device must convert the volumetric flow and temperature information into energy values.
701.3.3.3 (7.3.3.3) Data storage and retrieval.The data acquisition system shall be capable of electronically storing the data from the measurement devices and other sensing devices for a minimum of 36 months and creating user reports showing hourly, daily, monthly, and annual energy consumption.Exception: Portions of buildings used as residential.Projects should note that not all energy meters are capable of measuring or correcting for low power factor. Where low power factor is present, meters incapable of measuring or correcting the power factor will report real power (kW) rather than apparent power (kVA). Power is not always constant and is impacted by the connected loads. For example, an electric resistance heater (resistive load) has a constant power factor near unity but a motor (inductive load) has a variable power factor that decreases with load. Where power factor is low, the ability to measure it can be a useful tool in fully understanding a facility’s electrical energy consumption and billing from a utility company.Measurement of thermal systems and subsystems can be accomplished with a kWh meter, which measures the volumetric flow and temperature of the fuel. Measurement of fossil fuel systems or subsystems can be accomplished with a flowmeter. The meter or the reporting system used to analyze trends in energy consumption should be calibrated to account for the heating value content of the fuel used (per unit of volume), the pressure of the fuel going into the meter, and the atmospheric pressure at the location of the meter installation, as applicable. The meter or reporting system should also correct for temperature variations of the fossil fuel.Similarly, kWh meters or volumetric flowmeters paired with temperature sensors can be used to measure district thermal energy, geothermal energy and on-site renewable thermal energy. For cases where supply and return flow rates are the same (most district thermal energy and geothermal energy applications), energy consumption can be determined by measuring the volumetric flow in one location along with the temperature differential of the supply and return water.
701.3.4 (7.3.4) Automated demand response.Where a demand response (DR) program is available to the building project, the building controls shall be designed with automated DR infrastructure capable of receiving DR requests from the utility, electrical system operator, or third-party DR program provider and automatically implementing load adjustments to the HVAC and lighting systems.Exceptions:1.Buildings with a gross conditioned floor area less than 5000 ft2 (500 m2).2.Buildings that employ a thermal or electrical energy storage system with a total storage capacity that complies with one of the following:a.For thermal energy storage, the system shall be capable of displacing the HVAC design cooling coil capacityfor not less than the equivalent of three hours.b.For electrical energy storage, the capacity shall be not less than the requirements of the following formula:Minimum kWh capacity = Gross conditioned floor area (ft2) × 5.0 W/ft2 × 1.0 h × (1 kW/1000 W)     (I-P)Minimum kWh capacity = Gross conditioned floor area (m2) × 50 W/m2 × 1.0 h × (1 kW/1000 W)     (SI)See the commentary to Section 701.3.4.3.
701.3.4.1 (7.3.4.1) HVAC systems zone set points.The building project’s HVAC systems shall be programmed to allow centralized demand reduction in response to a signal from a centralized contact or software point in accordance with the following:a.The controls shall be programmed to automatically adjust upward the zone operating cooling set points by a minimum of 3°F (1.7°C).b.The controls shall programmed to automatically adjust downward the zone operating heating set points by a minimum of 3°F (1.7°C).c.The controls shall be programmed to automatically adjust downward the zone operating cooling set points by a minimum of 2°F (1.1°C).d.The automated DR strategy shall include both ramp-up and ramp-down logic to prevent the building peak demand from exceeding that expected without the DR implementation.Exception: Systems serving areas deemed by the owner to be critical in nature.See the commentary to Section 701.3.4.3.
701.3.4.2 (7.3.4.2) Variable-speed equipment.For HVAC equipment with variable-speed control, the controls shall be programmed to allow automatic adjustment of the maximum speed of the equipment to 90% of design speed during automated DR events. Airflow adjustments shall not decrease the supply airflow rate below the level that would result in outdoor airflow being below the minimum outdoor airflow rates specified in Section 801.3.1.1 (8.3.1.1), or that would cause adverse building pressurization problems.See the commentary to Section 701.3.4.3.
701.3.4.3 (7.3.4.3) Lighting.For building projects with interior lighting control systems controlled at a central point, such systems shall be programmed to allow automated DR. The programming shall reduce the total connected lighting power demand during a DR event by not less than 15% but no more than 50% of the baseline power level. The baseline lighting power shall be determined in accordance with Section 701.4.6.1.1 (7.4.6.1.1). For building projects without central lighting controls, DR capabilities for lighting systems shall not be required.For spaces not in the daylight area and not connected to automated daylighting control, the lighting levels shall be uniformly reduced throughout the space.Exceptions:1.Luminaires or signage on emergency circuits.2.Luminaires located within a daylight area that are dimmable and connected to automated daylighting control systems.3.Lighting systems, including dimming systems, claiming a lighting power allowance for institutional tuning in accordance with to Section 701.4.6.1.1(f) [7.4.6.1.1(f)].Where available, and with some exceptions, building projects with interior lighting control systems controlled at a central point are required to provide automatic systems capable of reducing the peak electrical demand of the building, thereby supporting a more efficient electrical grid. In addition to reducing the cost of electricity delivered to the building by permitting purchase of electricity at off-peak hours, the direct benefits of peak demand reduction include capacity market benefits (direct resource payments, peak load allocation and price suppression), energy market benefits (avoided costs during peaks and estimated price suppression), transmission and distribution (T&D) deferral benefits, and greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction benefits (avoided allowance costs), according to a 2015 study commissioned by the Advanced Energy Economy.Lighting not required to be controlled via automatic DR includes luminaires and signs on emergency circuits, dimmable luminaires located within a daylight area that are connected to automated daylight control systems, and systems that have claimed a lighting power allowance for institutional tuning.
701.3.5 (7.3.5) Fault detection and diagnostics (FDD).A fault detection and diagnostics (FDD) system shall be installed in new buildings to monitor the performance of the building’s HVAC system and detect faults in the system. The FDD system shall:a.Include permanently installed devices to monitor HVAC system operation;b.Sample the HVAC system performance not less than once per hour;c.Automatically identify, display, and report system faults;d.Automatically notify service personnel of identified fault conditions;e.Automatically provide prioritized recommendations for fault repair based on analysis of collected data; andf.Be capable of tracking and recording a history of identified faults, from identification through repair completion.Exceptions:1.Buildings with gross floor area less than 25,000 ft2 (2500 m2).2.Individual tenant spaces with gross floor area less than 10,000 ft2 (1000 m2).3.Dwelling units and hotel/motel guest rooms.4.Residential buildings with less than 10,000 ft2 (1000 m2) of common area.5.Emergency smoke control systems.
701.4 (7.4) Prescriptive option.Where a requirement is provided in this section, it supersedes the requirement in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. For all other criteria, the building project shall comply with the requirements of ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Sections 5 through 10.As with the mandatory requirements, when using the prescriptive option, each of these prescriptive measures must be met for the building project to satisfy the GBCP-2023. If the project cannot meet all of the prescriptive requirements, then it must use the performance-based method described in Section 701.5 (§ 7.5) and Appendix C.In the GBCP-2023, many of the prescriptive requirements for the building envelope, HVAC, service water heating, power, lighting, and other systems have been modified from or added to Standard 90.1-2019 requirements. These additional or modified requirements always supersede the corresponding requirement in Standard 90.1-2019. For all other criteria, the building project must comply with the relevant requirements of Standard 90.1-2019.In several cases, tradeoffs are allowed between prescriptive requirements. First, there are two prescriptive options: the Standard Renewables Approach and the Alternative Renewables Approach.The tradeoffs adopted for the GBCP-2023 are described in more detail under the applicable sections.
701.4.1 (7.4.1) On-site renewable energy systems.Building projects shall comply with either the Standard Renewables Approach or the Alternate Renewables Approach in Section 701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1) and Table 701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1).
701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1) Renewable energy systems.The adjusted renewable energy provided to the project shall be equal to or greater than the gross floor areas of the building project multiplied by the renewable energy requirement from Table 701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1). For allocations to multiple tenants within a building project, the requirements shall be assigned to each tenant based on the total of gross floor area of each tenant space.Building projects complying with the Alternate Renewables Approach shall comply with the applicable equipment efficiency requirements in Normative Appendix B, the water-heating efficiency requirements in Section 701.4.4.1 (7.4.4.1), equipment efficiency requirements in Section 701.4.7.1 (7.4.7.1), the applicable requirements in Section 701.4.7.3.2 (7.4.7.3.2) and the best international (or equivalent national) practices approved by AHJ. For equipment listed in Section 701.4.7.3.2 (7.4.7.3.2) that are also contained in Normative Appendix B, the installed equipment shall comply by meeting or exceeding both requirements. The Alternate Renewables Approach shall apply only to building projects where the sum of the gross floor areas of the building project are less than 25,000 ft2 (2300 m2).Documentation shall be provided to the AHJ that substantiates procurement of renewable energy systems, of renewable energy contracts, or of a quantity of Tradable Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) or System Ownership Documents (SODs) required to meet the Exception to Section 701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1). Tradable Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) or System Ownership Documents (SODs) shall be tracked in accordance with Section 1001.9.8 (10.9.8).Qualifying renewable energy systems are as follows:a.On-site renewable energy system.b.Off-site renewable energy system.1.Self-generation (an off-site renewable energy system owned by the building projectowner); the system shall comply with Section 701.4.1.3 (7.4.1.3).2.Community renewable energy facility; the system shall comply with Section 701.4.1.3 (7.4.1.3).3.Purchase contract; the system shall comply with Section 701.4.1.3 (7.4.1.3).Exception: Building projects that demonstrate to the AHJ that they cannot comply with Section 7.4.1.1 shall contract for renewable electricity products complying with the Renewable Energy Policy and Renewable Grid Code of not less than 1.2 MWh/ft2 (12.6 MWh/m2) of gross floor area, or an amount equal to 100% of the modeled annual energy use multiplied by 20 years, whichever is less. A combination of renewable electricity products and renewable energy systems shall be permitted to demonstrate compliance. Tradable Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) or System Ownership Documents (SODs) shall be tracked per Section 1001.9.8 (10.9.8).
TABLE 701.4.1.1 (TABLE 7.4.1.1)
RENEWABLE ENERGY REQUIREMENT
BUILDING TYPE STANDARD RENEWABLES APPROACH ALTERNATE RENEWABLES APPROACH
kBtu/ft2
• y kWh/m2
• y kBtu/ft2
• y kWh/m2
• y
Office 14 44 13 40
Retail 24 74 21 67
School 19 61 17 55
Health care 40 126 36 113
Restaurant 40 126 36 113
Hotel 34 108 31 98
Apartment 22 68 20 62
Warehouse 8 26 7 23
All others 25 80 23 72
When following the prescriptive path, projects must comply with either the Section 701.4.1.1 (§ 7.4.1.1), requirements for “Standard Renewables Approach: Baseline On-Site Renewable Energy Systems” or the “Alternate Renewables Approach: Reduced On-Site Renewable Energy Systems and Higher-Efficiency Equipment.” As Section 701.4.1.1 and Table 701.4.1.1 (Table 7.4.1.1) indicate, the Standard Renewables Approach requires a baseline level of on-site renewable energy, while the Alternate Renewables Approach allows for reduced requirements for on-site renewable systems in exchange for increased energy efficiency. In general, the tradeoffs between the two paths are as follows:• “Standard Renewables Approach: Baseline On-Site Renewable Energy Systems.” This approach requires higher amounts of renewable energy production in conjunction with equipment efficiency levels at the Standard 90.1-2019 levels or the minimum federal efficiency levels.• “Alternate Renewables Approach: Reduced On-Site Renewable Energy Systems and Higher Efficiency Equipment.” When using this approach, the amount of renewable production required is reduced by approximately one-third in return for designing the building with higher-efficiency equipment than is required by Standard 90.1-2019 or the federal appliance efficiency standards. The higher efficiency equipment requirements are contained in Normative Appendix B, the water-heating efficiency requirements in Section 701.4.4.1 (§ 7.4.4.1), equipment efficiency requirements in Section 701.4.7.1 (§ 7.4.7.1), and the applicable ENERGY STAR/equivalent requirements in Section 701.4.7.3.2 (§ 7.4.7.3.2). Where a particular piece of equipment is covered by both Appendix B and ENERGY STAR/equivalent, the equipment selected shall meet or exceed the efficiency required by both.• Regardless of which renewables approach is taken, the building design must meet the ENERGY STAR requirements for equipment not covered by federal appliance efficiency regulations, Section 701.4.7.3.1 (§ 7.4.7.3.1).The basic prescriptive requirement is that the sum of renewable energy produced on-site or procured off-site be greater than or equal to about half of the expected building energy use. The requirements are detailed by building type in Table 701.4.1.1 (Table 7.4.1.1).TABLE 701.4.1.1 (TABLE 7.4.1.1)RENEWABLE ENERGY REQUIREMENTBuilding TypeStandard Renewables ApproachAlternate Renewables ApproachkBtu/ft2·ykWh/m2·ykBtu/ft2·ykWh/m2·yOffice14441340Retail24742167School19611755Health care4012636113Restaurant4012636113Hotel341083198Apartment22682062Warehouse826723All others25802372
701.4.1.2 (7.4.1.2)
Adjustable renewable energy.Each source of renewable energy delivered to or credited to the building project shall be multiplied by the factors in Table 701.4.1.2 (7.4.1.2) when determining compliance with Section 701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1).
TABLE 701.4.1.2 (TABLE 7.4.1.2)MULTIPLIERS FOR RENEWABLE ENERGY PROCUREMENT METHODS
LOCATION RENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCE RENEWABLE ENERGY FACTOR
On-site On-site renewable energy system 1.00
Off-site Directly owned off-site renewable energy system 0.75
Community renewable energy facility 0.75
Virtual PPA 0.75
Section 701.4.1.2, by reference to Table 701.4.1.2, Multipliers for Renewable Energy, Procurement Methods, allocates credit for renewable energy sources when determining compliance with Section 701.4.1.1.On-site renewable energy has many advantages compared to off-site procurement in terms of long-term commitment, additionality and financing. On-site systems also have informational and inspirational value because they are visible building assets. The GBCP-2023 therefore gives more credit to on-site systems than to off-site renewable systems or virtual power purchase agreements.
701.4.1.3 (7.4.1.3)
Off-site renewable energy requirements.Off-site renewable energy delivered or credited to the building project to comply with Section 701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1) shall be subject to a legally binding contract to procure qualifying off-site renewable energy. Qualifying off-site renewable energy shall meet the following requirements:a.Documentation of off-site renewable energy procurement shall be submitted to the AHJ.b.The purchase contract shall have a duration of not less than 15 years. The contract shall be structured to survive a partial or full transfer of ownership of the building property.c.RECs or SOD associated with the purchase contract from an off-site renewable energy system shall be assigned exclusively to the building owner for a period of not less than 15 years and tracked in accordance with Section 1001.9.8 (10.9.8).d.The energy source shall produce electricity from solar, wind, or geothermal energy.Exceptions:1.Captured methane from feed lots and landfills are permitted to be used to generate electricity for the purposes of this section.2.Hydropower from new generation capacity on a nonimpoundment or new generation capacity on an existing impoundment that meets one of the following conditions:a.The hydropower facility complies with the Low Impact Hydropower Certification Handbook and is certified by a nationally recognized accreditation organization.b.The hydropower facility complies with UL 2854 and is certified by an organization that has the standard in its ISO 17065 scope of accreditation.c.The hydropower facility consists of a turbine in a pipeline or a turbine in an irrigation canal. For facilities falling under Exception 2(a) or 2(b), only output generated during the period of certification is eligible for RECs sale in accordance with the provisions of this section. Renewables from new impoundments of water are not eligible.e.The generation source shall be located where the energy can be delivered to the building site by any of the following:1.Direct connection to the off-site renewable energy facility.2.The local utility or distribution entity.3.An interconnected electrical network where energy delivery capacity between the generator and the building site is available. (Informative Note: Examples of interconnected electrical networks include regional power pools and regions served by National System Operator or National Transmission System Operator).f.Records on renewable power purchased by the building owner from the off-site renewable energy generator that specifically assign the RECs or SODs to the building owner shall be retained or retired by the building owner on behalf of the entity demonstrating financial or operational control over the building seeking compliance to this code and made available for inspection by the AHJ upon request. [Informative Note: Refer to Sections 1001.9.8 (10.9.8) and 1001.9.9 (10.9.9) for tracking and allocation requirements.]g.Where multiple buildings in a building project are allocated energy procured by a contract subject to this section, the owner shall allocate for not less than 15 years the energy procured by the contract to the buildings in the building project. [Informative Note: Refer to Section 1001.9.9 (10.9.9) for allocation requirements.]Off-site renewable energy, subject to a legally binding contract for procurement, is acceptable for meeting the requirements of the GBCP-2023, provided that it meets certain requirements:Documentation of the off-site renewable energy procurement must be provided to the Pakistan Authority.The purchase contract must have a duration of 15 years or more and the contract must be drafted to survive a partial or full transfer of ownership of the building property.Renewable energy credits associated with the purchase contract must be assigned solely to the building owner for a period of not less than 15 years. Additionally, they must be tracked in accordance with Section 1001.9.8.With several exceptions, the renewable energy source must produce electricity from solar, wind or geothermal energy.The generation source must be located where the energy can be delivered to the building site by direct connection to the off-site renewable energy facility, the local utility or distribution entity, or an interconnected electrical network where energy can be delivered between the generator and the building site.Records of off-site-purchased renewable power that specifically assigns the RECs to the building owner must be retained or retired by the building owner.Where a building project has multiple buildings, such as in a campus situation, that are allocated energy procured by a contract, the owner must allocate the procured energy to the buildings in the building project for not less than 15 years.Exceptions to the renewable energy source requirements include captured feedlot and landfill methane, hydropower generated from nonimpoundment or existing impoundments at certified and accredited facilities, or hydropower from a facility consisting of a turbine in a pipeline or irrigation canal. Note that only output generated during the period of certification is eligible for RECs from certified hydropower facilities.
701.4.2 (7.4.2) Building envelope.The building envelope shall comply with ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 5, with the following modifications and additions.The building envelope requirements of PECC Chapter 3 must be met except where they are specifically superseded by the subsections of Section 701.4.2. In most cases, the GBCP-2023 requires that more energy-efficient criteria be met.Prior to applying the requirements of this section, not only must the climate zone be known, but the space conditioning category and space classification must also be known.The envelope requirements apply to three types of spaces: nonresidential, residential and semiheated. Both nonresidential and residential are conditioned spaces; for these, the GBCP-2023 generally calls for more insulation and morecontrol of heat gain through fenestration as compared to semiheated spaces. The code distinguishes between conditioned, semiheated, unconditioned and indirectly conditioned space classifications. The building envelope requirements donot apply to unconditioned spaces. These space conditioning categories are discussed here.The residential space category includes spaces in buildings used primarily for living and sleeping. The occupants can be either permanent or transient in nature. Consequently, the residential space category includes dwelling units (apartments and condominiums); dormitories, fraternities and sororities; and hotel/motel guest rooms, boarding houses and hostels.Note that the residential space category also includes the living and sleeping portions of institutional and other facilities. Examples include, but are not limited to, congregate care, assisted living facilities, group homes, nursing homes, convalescent facilities, hospital patient rooms, prisons, detention centers and fire stations.The nonresidential space category includes all other conditioned spaces covered by the GBCP-2023, including, but not limited to, offices, retail shops, shopping malls, theaters, restaurants and meeting rooms. The defining characteristic of nonresidential spaces is that they are not continuously conditioned. Offices, for instance, are typically conditioned only during the day on weekdays and part of the day on Saturday; they are generally not conditioned on Sundays and holidays or at night. Residential spaces, on the other hand, are conditioned on a more-or-less-continuous basis. A greater investment in energy efficiency can be justified for spaces that are continuously conditioned, and this is the basis of the distinction between these two space categories.Note that the prescriptive building envelope criteria for each space-conditioning category must be applied on a spaceby-space basis rather than on a floor-by-floor basis or on an overall building basis. Consequently, it is necessary to identify the space uses on the perimeter of the building to determine the building envelope criteria that apply to the specific portion of the building. Many buildings are mixed-use with some portion of the building envelope required to comply with the residential building envelope criteria and other portions subject to the nonresidential building envelope criteria. For example, take a 10-story hotel having a ground floor containing the registration area, restaurant, bar and indoor swimming pool; the second floor having administrative offices and meeting rooms; and the upper floors consisting solely of guest rooms. In this case, the building envelope of the first two floors is subject to the criteria for nonresidential spaces, and the building envelope of the upper floors must comply with the criteria for residential spaces. It may be necessary to divide a single floor into both residential and nonresidential spaces. For example, a 5-story apartment building might have retail spaces just on the street side of the ground floor, while the remainder of the ground floor has apartments. In this case, the building envelope of the street side of the ground floor must comply with the criteria for nonresidential spaces, while the building envelope of the rear half of the ground floor and all of the upper floors must comply with the criteria for residential spaces.
701.4.2.1 (7.4.2.1) [JO] Building envelope requirements.The building envelope shall comply with the requirements in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Tables 5.5-0 through 5.5-8, with the following modifications to values in each table. For the opaque elements, each U-factor, C-factor, and F-factor in Tables 5.5-4 through 5.5-8 shall be reduced by 5%. The “Insulation Min. R-Value” column in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Tables 5.5-4 through 5.5-8, shall not apply. For vertical fenestration and skylights, each U-factor shall be reduced by 5%. For skylights and east- and west-oriented vertical fenestration, each solar heat gain coefficient (SHGC) in Tables 5.5-0 through 5.5-8 shall be reduced by 5%.Exceptions:1.The U-factor, C-factor, or F-factor shall not be modified where the corresponding R-value requirement is designated as “NR” (no requirement) in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Tables 5.5-4 through 5.5-8.2.The SHGC shall not be modified where the SHGC requirement is designated as “NR” (no requirement) in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Tables 5.5-0 through 5.5-8.3.Spaces that meet the requirements of Section 801.4.1 (8.4.1), regardless of space area, are exempt from the SHGC criteria for skylights.Informative Notes:1.U-factors, C-factors, and F-factors for many common assemblies are provided in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Normative Appendix A.2.Section 501.3.5.3 (5.3.5.3) of this code includes additional provisions related to roofs.The minimum prescriptive requirements for envelope construction assemblies and fenestration assemblies are either the same as ASHRAE 90.1 or a percentage change from that code’s values. As for single-rafter roofs, envelope requirements are applied based on climate zones and space conditioning types.Conditioned space is space that has a heating and/or cooling system of sufficient size to maintain temperatures suitable for human comfort. For simplicity of compliance, the definition of conditioned space is expressed in terms of installed heating and/or cooling equipment capacity per square meter of floor area. For cooling, the threshold is 15 W/m2, and for heating, the threshold depends on the climate zone of the building location.Most of the time it will be easy to identify indirectly conditioned spaces. When there is uncertainty, the standard has two criteria to determine what constitutes indirectly conditioned space:The heat transfer rate to conditioned space is larger than the heat transfer rate to the exterior (ambient conditions). This will cause the temperature of the space to more closely track interior temperature.There is an air transfer rate between the space and conditioned space that exceeds 3 ACH.Unconditioned space is a space that does not have a heating and cooling system or has only a heating system smaller than 10 W/m2. The default assumption is that all spaces in Climate Zones 3 through 4 are conditioned or semiheated. As noted below, it is usually the designer’s choice as to whether a space is unconditioned or indirectly conditioned. Unconditioned space must be approved by the building official and labeled on the construction plans. This determination is based on the intended use of the space, regardless of whether mechanical equipment is included with the building permit application.For projects located in Climate Zones 0 through 4, the maximum allowable vertical fenestration and skylight U-factor and the SHGC of the east- and west-oriented vertical fenestration and skylights are 5% less than those provided in Standard 90.1-2019. For projects located in any climate zone, where the SHGC is “NR” (no requirement) in Standard 90.1-2019, there is no SHGC requirement in the GBCP-2023 and the maximum assembly U-factor provided in Standard 90.1-2019 must be used.The SHGC requirements are exempted for skylights that meet all of the requirements in Section 801.4.1, regardless of space area. These are skylights that have a visible transmittance (VT) greater than 0.40 and have a haze (diffusion) value greater than 90%. For more information, see Section 801.4.1. The SHGC requirements are exempted because the SHGC and VT of plastic skylights are closely correlated. Reducing SHGC would reduce the light transmittance of the skylight, thereby potentially reducing the cooling load but increasing energy use more, due to the lost opportunity from daylight responsive control of electric lighting.For projects located in Climate Zones 0 through 3, the maximum U-factors, C-factors and F-factors for opaque assemblies are those provided in Standard 90.1-2019. For all climate zones, where the opaque assembly R-value is “NR” (no requirement) in Standard 90.1-2019, there is also no requirement for an R-value in the GBCP-2023 and the U-factor, Cfactor and F-factor requirement remains the same as in Standard 90.1-2019.Because Section 701.4.2 only provides U-factors, C-factors and F-factors, no minimum prescriptive insulation R-values are provided. Informative Appendix E was created to provide prescriptive insulation R-values for envelope assemblies without the need to calculate new U-factors, C-factors or F-factors. The concept of reducing the U-, C- and F-factors in Tables 5.5-4 through 5.5-8 of Standard 90.1-2019 by 5% was a simple method to increase the energy efficiency but it provides no guidance as to what constructions would actually be required. Reducing the U-, C- and F-factors by 5% does not result in a factor that has a simple set of construction materials that will exactly match the factor.The approach taken to develop the values in Informative Appendix E was to calculate the new U-, C- and F-factors that exactly comply with the minimum requirements of the GBCP-2023. The R-values in Appendix E represent specific construction assemblies that also comply with the code. These are not the only way to use R-values to meet the requirement but are provided as a simplified method of showing compliance. Use of tables in Appendix E is the same as use of Tables 5.5-0 through 5.5-8 in Standard 90.1-2019. Generally, these R-values will have slightly more insulation than is required. It is possible for some assemblies with lower R-values to also meet the U-, C- and F-factors and therefore also comply. Unlike Standard 90.1-2019, Tables 5.5-0 through 5.5-8, the U-, C- and F-factors in Appendix E do not represent the same assembly as the R-value.Opaque Construction Assembly CriteriaAs an alternative to using the prescriptive R-values provided in Appendix E, Standard 90.1-2019, Appendix A, may be used to determine assembly U-, C- and F-factors for various assembly construction types. Opaque areas of the building envelope include the following classes of constructions: roofs, above-grade walls, floors, below-grade walls, slab-on-grade floors and opaque doors. Standard 90.1-2019 and Appendix E identify classes of construction and give separate design criteria for each class. Most of the time, the appropriate class of construction will be obvious. The Standard 90.1-2019 User’s Manual, Table 5-C, summarizes the defining characteristics of the various classes of opaque constructions and gives a thumbnail sketch of each.There are two ways to meet the prescriptive requirements for opaque construction. The easier of the two is to install insulation with an R-value that exceeds that shown in the column labeled “Insulation Min. R-value.” R-value criteria are given for all constructions except opaque doors. The R-value criteria apply only to the insulation materials and do not include sheathing, air gaps, interior finishes or air films. When a single R-value is given, the standard usually assumes that the insulation is located within a cavity in the construction. For instance, for wood-framed walls, a requirement of R-20 (R- 3.5) means that the insulation installed between the framing members has a thermal resistance at least as great as R-20 (R-3.5).When a building has more than one class of construction that falls within the same space-conditioning categories, area-weighted averaging can be performed using the U-, C- and F-factor compliance option. Area-weighted averaging is not allowed for R-value compliance. Area-weighted averaging enables one construction assembly within the class to fail to meet the criteria as long as other constructions within the class exceed the requirement. However, the area-weighted average of all constructions within the class must be less than the U-, C- or F-factor criteria.When doing area-weighted averaging, up to 1% of openings due to recessed equipment can be ignored. If the openings are greater than 1%, they need to be accounted for in the area-weighted average.The U-factor requirements for single-rafter roofs are specified in Section 701.4.2.3 and provided in Normative Appendix A. The values in Standard 90.1-2019, Table A2.4.2, do not apply. For single-rafter roof construction, framing members (usually wood framing members) have exterior sheathing attached to one side and the interior finish attached to the other side. The depth of the framing member limits the depth of the cavity.Fenestration CriteriaFenestration must comply with all relevant requirements in Standard 90.1-2019, Section 5, except as modified or added to the GBCP-2023. The fenestration design criteria apply to windows, glass doors, glass blocks, plastic panels, and skylights. For both windows and skylights, there are three performance requirements: a maximum U-factor, a maximum SHGC and a minimum ratio VT divided by SHGC.The prescriptive building envelope option limits the window-to-wall ratio (WWR) to 40% of the gross exterior wall and limits the skylight-to-roof ratio (SRR) to 3% of the roof area (or 6% if the total daylight area under the skylights is a minimum of half the floor area of the space and certain daylighting requirements are met as specified in Standard 90.1-2019, Section 5.4.4.2). Projects that have fenestration areas exceeding 40% of gross wall area must document compliance using the performance option in Section 701.5.There are four classes of vertical fenestration that are based on frame type: nonmetal-framed products, metal-framed fixed products (including both fixed unit windows as well as curtain walls and storefronts), metal-framed operable products and metal-framed entrance doors. The code has separate criteria for these classes of vertical fenestration. The GBCP- 2023 also has criteria for skylights.U-FactorThe U-factor requirement of the fenestration depends on the class (framing type). The U-factor must be determined in accordance with National Fenestration Rating Council (NFRC) rating procedures (see Standard 90.1-2019, Section 5.8.2). For products with NFRC ratings, the U-factors that are provided on the NFRC label or label certificate must be used. For unlabeled windows and skylights, the values in Standard 90.1-2019, Appendix A, Tables A8.2 and A8.1-1, respectively, must be used. Where a building has more than one type of window or skylight, not every one must meet the U-factor criteria. An area-weighted average calculation can be performed separately for windows and skylights. To show compliance, the area-weighted average U-factor must be less than or equal to the criteria. Note that NFRC ratings are generally provided at a standard reference size for comparative purposes, but this may vary from the performance at the actual fenestration size. For area-weighted averages as well as other purposes such as HVAC sizing, it is more accurate to use the actual size U-factor ratings in the calculation where available.Solar Heat Gain CoefficientIn addition to the SHGC requirements in Section 701.4.2.1, the project must comply with the permanent projections requirement in Section 701.4.2.7.The SHGC is to be determined in accordance with NFRC rating procedures by a laboratory accredited by the NFRC. For products with NFRC ratings, the NFRC-rated SHGC must be used. For unlabeled products, the values in Standard 90.1-2019, Appendix A, Tables A8.1-2 and A8.2, must be used. Standard 90.1-2019, Section 5.8.2.4, Exception 1, also allows the shading coefficient of the center of the glass multiplied by 0.86 to be an acceptable alternative to SHGC if the shading coefficient is determined using a spectral data file determined in accordance with NRFC 300. In addition, this section permits the SHGC for the center-of-glass to be used for compliance calculations. See Standard 90.1-2019, Section 5.8.2.4 for details.Visible Light TransmittanceVisible transmittance (VT) is the third important performance characteristic of fenestration products. VT is the ratio of light passing through the glazing to light passing through perfectly transmissive glazing. VT is concerned only with the visible portion of the solar spectrum, as opposed to SHGC, which is the ratio of all solar radiation. VT is important for buildings that incorporate daylighting. It is also important in order to enjoy views from windows.The VT requirements in the GBCP-2023 are presented in terms of VT divided by SHGC and are presented in Tables 5.5-0 through 5.5-8 of Standard 90.1-2019.There is a strong relationship between the VT and the SHGC. Generally, the lower the SHGC, the lower the VT. Some glazing products, however, have a VT higher than other products with the same SHGC. For instance, bronze-, gray- and green-tinted glass all have about the same SHGC for a given glass thickness, but green or blue glass has a significantly higher VT. Likewise, some coatings applied to the surface of glazing reduce the SHGC more than they do the VT. For these reasons, manufacturers’ literature should be carefully consulted in the selection of glazing products. For good daylighting without excessive solar gain, look for a product whose VT/SHGC ratio is higher.The GBCP-2023, by reference to Section 5.8.2.5 of Standard 90.1-2019, requires that VT be determined in accordance with NFRC Standard 200 and that the VT be verified and certified by the glazing manufacturer. For unlabeled skylights, default values are provided in Standard 90.1-2019, Appendix A, Table A8.1-2. For other unlabeled products, use Standard 90.1-2019, Appendix A, Table A8.2. While VT may be listed in some glass manufacturers’ catalogs, remember that this value applies just to the glass. The VT to be used in daylighting calculations or in tradeoff options must be an overall fenestration product value that considers glass, sash and frame.Additional Prescriptive Building Envelope RequirementsIn addition to the envelope criteria changes previously noted, several other envelope requirements are modified from or added to Standard 90.1-2019 requirements. These include modifications of requirements for high-speed doors [Section 701.4.2.4], adding requirements for air curtains at building entrances [Section 701.4.2.5], or adding a requirement for permanent shading projections for vertical fenestration [Section 701.4.2.7].
701.4.2.2 (7.4.2.2) Mechanical equipment penetration requirements.Where the total area of penetrations from mechanical equipment listed in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Table 6.8.1-4, exceeds 2% of the opaque above-grade wall area, the mechanical equipment penetration area shall be calculated as a separate assembly with a published U-factor value for that equipment or a default U-factor of 0.5 Btu/h • ft2 • °F (3 W/m2 • K) in accordance with ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 5.5.3(b). Where Exception 2 to ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1 Section 5.5.3 is used for compliance, the penetration shall be considered to be the same class of construction as an adjacent wall.Section 701.4.2.2 addresses wall-mounted mechanical equipment as defined in the GBCP-2023, which can account for a significant portion of wall area and have a significant impact on the thermal performance of the wall. Where mechanical equipment penetrations exceed 2% of the wall area, the mechanical equipment penetration area must be calculated as a separate assembly with a published U-factor value for that equipment or with a default U-factor of 3 W/m2 × K in accordance with PECC.
701.4.2.3 (7.4.2.3)
[JO] Single-rafter roof insulation.Single-rafter roofs shall comply with the requirements in Normative Appendix A, Table A101.1 (A-1). These requirements supersede the requirements in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section A2.4.2.4. ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section A2.4.2.4 and Table A2.4.2, shall not apply.Single-rafter roofs are a subcategory of attic roofs where the roof above and the ceiling below are both attached to the same wood rafter and where insulation is located in the space between these wood rafters. Single-rafter roofs must comply with the requirements in Normative Appendix A, Table A101.1.
701.4.2.4 (7.4.2.4) [JO] High-speed doors.High-speed doors that are intended to operate on average at least 75 cycles per day shall not exceed a maximum U-factor of 1.20 Btu/h • ft2 • °F (6.81 W/m2 • K). Opening rate, closing rate, and average cycles per day shall be included in construction drawings. ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Sections 5.5.3.6 and 5.5.4.3, shall not apply for high-speed doors complying with all criteria in this section.High-speed doors are doors that have an opening rate of not less than 810 mm/s and a closing rate of not less than 610 mm/s. They are further defined as nonswinging doors used primarily to facilitate vehicular access or material transportation. The door must have an automatic closing device. Doors that do not meet these criteria must comply with the standard swinging or nonswinging door requirements.The separate criteria for a high-speed door were developed for specific applications when the rapid opening and closing of the doors would significantly reduce the air infiltration to the point that it offsets the energy loss/gain when the doors were normally closed.Where high-speed doors used in the building project are designed to operate on average at least 75 cycles per day, the U-factor can be increased to a maximum of 6.81 W/m2 × K. The average cycles per day shall be calculated as the total number of cycles per year divided by 365 days per year. The opening rate, closing rate and average cycles per day must be shown on the construction drawings.This is slightly more stringent than the requirements for nonswinging doors in semi-conditioned spaces in Climate Zones 0 through 2. Elsewhere this allows a less-insulating door but one that is lighter and can more easily be quickly closed in areas with high levels of traffic.One item to consider with the application of high-speed doors is security, as the doors are manufactured using lightweight fabric materials. An ideal application would be to separate the loading dock area from the interior conditioned space of a building.
701.4.2.5 (7.4.2.5) Air curtains.Where air curtains are provided at building entrances or building entrance vestibules, for the distance from the air-curtain discharge nozzle to the floor, the air-curtain unit shall produce a minimum velocity of 6.6 ft/s (2.0 m/s) in accordance with ANSI/AMCA 220 and be installed in accordance with manufacturer’s instructions. Automatic controls shall be provided that will operate the air curtain with the opening and closing of the door. Air curtains and their controls shall comply with Section 1001.3.2.1 (10.3.2.1).The GBCP-2023 does not require air curtains at building entrances, but where they are provided, they must produce a minimum velocity of 2.0 m/s in accordance with ANSI/AMCA 220 and be provided with controls that will operate the air curtain with the opening and closing of the door. Air curtain systems are required to be commissioned per Section 1001.3.2.1.
701.4.2.6 (7.4.2.6) Vertical fenestration area.The total vertical fenestration area shall be less than 40% of the gross wall area. This requirement supersedes the requirement in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 5.5.4.2.1.When following the GBCP-2023’s prescriptive path, the total vertical fenestration area must be less than 40% of the gross wall area.
701.4.2.7 (7.4.2.7) [JO] Permanent projections.For Climate Zones 1 and 2, the vertical fenestration on the west, south, and east shall be shaded by permanent projections that have an area-weighted average projection factor (PF) of not less than 0.50 for the first story above grade and 0.25 for other above-grade stories. The building is allowed to be rotated up to 45 degrees to the nearest cardinal orientation for purposes of calculations and showing compliance. Where different windows or glass doors have different PF values, each shall be evaluated separately, or an area-weighted PF value shall be calculated and used for all windows and glass doors. Horizontal projections shall extend over the full width of the glazing.Exceptions: Permanent projections are not required for the following buildings and fenestrations:1.Where vertical fenestration is located within 18 in. (450 mm) of the lot line.2.Where equivalent shading of the vertical fenestration is provided by buildings, structures, geological formations, or permanent exterior projections that are not horizontal, as determined by sun-angle studies at the peak solar altitude on the summer solstice and three hours before and after the peak solar altitude on the summer solstice.3.Vertical fenestration with automatically controlled shading devices capable of modulating in multiple steps the amount of solar gain and light transmitted into the space in response to daylight levels or solar intensity that comply with all of the following:a.Exterior shading devices shall be capable of providing at least 90% coverage of the
fenestration in the closed position.b.Interior shading devices shall be capable of providing at least 90% coverage of the fenestration in the closed position and have a minimum solar reflectance of 0.50 for the surface facing the fenestration.c.A manual override located in the same enclosed space as the vertical fenestration shall override operation of automatic controls no longer than four hours.d.Functional and performance testing (FPT) and commissioning shall be conducted as required by Chapter 10 to verify that automatic controls for shading devices respond to changes in illumination or radiation intensity.4.Vertical fenestration with automatically controlled dynamic glazing capable of modulating in multiple steps the amount of solar gain and light transmitted into the space in response to daylight levels or solar intensity that comply with all of the following:a.Dynamic glazing shall have a lower labeled SHGC equal to or less than 0.12, lowest labeled visible transmittance (VT) no greater than 0.05, and highest labeled VT no less than 0.40.b.A manual override located in the same enclosed space as the vertical fenestration shall override operation of automatic controls no longer than 4 hours.c.FPT and commissioning shall be conducted as required by Chapter 10 to verify that automatic controls for dynamic glazing respond to changes in illumination or radiation intensity.5.Existing buildings undergoing alteration, repair, relocation, or a change of occupancy.Vertical fenestration on the west, south and east faces of building projects in Climate Zones 1 and 2 must be shaded by permanent projections (projections designed to last as long as the building itself) that have an area-weighted average projection factor (PF) of not less than 0.50 for the first story above grade and 0.25 for other above-grade stories [Section 701.4.2.6]. The PF is calculated consistent with the requirements of PECC as “the ratio of the horizontal depth of the external shading projection divided by the sum of the height of the fenestration and the distance from the top of the fenestration to the bottom of the farthest point of the external shading projection, in consistent units.” See Section 801.4.1.3 of this code for a full explanation of how to calculate PF.The area-weighted average PF is the sum of the products of the fenestration areas and the PFs for all windows facing in one direction divided by the total window area facing in that direction:where:PFw = the area-weighted PF for a given orientation.Af,I =
the vertical fenestration area for each window in the given orientation.PFi = the PF for each window in the given orientation.Windows can be rotated by up to 45 degrees to the nearest cardinal orientation to determine whether permanent projections are required. For example, a window that is rotated 44 degrees from north can be grouped with all other northfacing glass for the PF area-weighted calculation shown previously.where:Os = (Ai × Oi)+ (Af × Of )Os = percent opacity of the shading device.Ai = percent of the area of the shading device that is a partially opaque infill.Oi = percent opacity of the infill – for glass Oi = (100% – Ts), where Ts is the solar transmittance as determined in accordance with NFRC 300; for perforated or decorative metal panels, Oi = percentage of solid material.Af = percent of the area of the shading device that represents the framing members.Of = percent opacity of the framing members; if solid, then 100%.Vertical fenestration that receives equivalent shading by other permanent buildings, structures, geological formations or permanent exterior projections that are not horizontal is excluded from the requirement for permanent projections. The exception does not apply to shading from trees or other vegetation. This would likely occur for fenestration on the lower floors of buildings in an urban infill project that are mostly obscured from direct sunlight by tall buildings. To verify that this exception applies, a shading study would take into account the latitude of the building project, the window locations on the building project, and the properties of the existing buildings, infrastructure or topography that will limit direct sunlight to the building. Most building information modeling (BIM) software tools can determine hours of direct solar radiation per year. Some tools can also be used with available solar or shading tool plug-ins to evaluate the average shading of fenestration surfaces. Plug-ins for these tools can calculate the shading coefficient of any surface over time.Vertical fenestration with automatic controlled interior or exterior shading devices meets the PF requirements where certain conditions are met. The shading devices must have multiple steps of shading capability that limit the amount of solar gain and light transmitted into the space. The controls must respond to daylight levels or solar intensity. The automatic controls must meet acceptance testing and commissioning (Cx) requirements and the other requirements of Exception 2 must be met.Two other practical exceptions to the requirement for permanent projections exist for buildings within 450 mm of the property line and for existing buildings undergoing alteration, repair, relocation or a change of occupancy. The limited projection available to some buildings because of property line constraints will likely not actually shade the fenestration. Adding projections to existing buildings could be complicated, beyond the scope of the intended work and frequently not cost effective.Vertical fenestration with automatic controlled dynamic glazing also meets the PF requirements where certain conditions are met. Dynamic glazing has the ability to modify its performance parameters, such as SHGC and VT, to optimize cooling loads, daylighting and energy performance throughout the day and over different seasons. Examples include shading systems between glazing layers or chromogenic glazing. The dynamic glazing must have multiple steps of shading capability that limit the amount of solar gain and light transmitted into the space. The controls must respond to daylight levels or solar intensity.Because there is not a single SHGC value like traditional fenestration products, NFRC ratings for dynamic glazing list both higher and lower performance values on the label or certificate. Dynamic glazing must have a lower- labeled SHGC equal to or less than 0.12, the lowest-labeled VT not greater than 0.05, and the highest-labeled VT not less than 0.40.The automatic controls must meet acceptance testing and Cx requirements, and the other requirements of Exception 3 must be met.
701.4.2.8 (7.4.2.8) SHGC of north-facing vertical fenestration. This section is intentionally left blank.
701.4.2.9 (7.4.2.9) Building envelope trade-off option.The building envelope trade-off option in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 5.6, shall not apply unless the procedure incorporates the modifications and additions to ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1 noted in Section 701.4.2 (7.4.2).If the building envelope tradeoff option described in Standard 90.1-2019, Appendix C, Section 3.6, is used, all modifications and additions from Standard 90.1-2019, Section 7.4.2, shall be incorporated. This is a complex undertaking beyond the scope of this manual because it involves developing computer simulation software.
701.4.2.10 (7.4.2.10) Orientation.The vertical fenestration shall comply with either (a) or (b):where:SHGCx = The SHGC for orientation x that complies with Section 701.4.2.8 (7.4.2.8).SHGCC = The SHGC criteria for each climate zone from Section 701.4.2.1 (7.4.2.1).Ax =
Fenestration area for orientation x.N = North (oriented less than 45 degrees of true north).S = South (oriented less than 45 degrees of true south).E = East (oriented less than or equal to 45 degrees of true east).W = West (oriented less than or equal to 45 degrees of true west).Exceptions:1.Vertical fenestration that complies with ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 5.5.4.4.1, Exception 3.2.Buildings with shade on 75% of the west- and east-oriented vertical fenestration areas from permanent projections, existing buildings, existing permanent infrastructure, or topography at 9 a.m. and 3 p.m. on the summer solstice (June 21 in the northern hemisphere).3.Alterations and additions with no increase in vertical fenestration area.4.Buildings where the west- and east-oriented vertical fenestration areas do not exceed 20% of the gross wall area for each of those façades, and the SHGC on those faÇades is not greater than 90% of the criteria in Section 701.4.2.1 (7.4.2.1).The orientation of fenestration is an important building feature. Fenestration that faces east and west experience low solar angles in the morning and afternoon, respectively. As a result, east-oriented and west-oriented fenestration has a higher solar gain than north- or south-oriented fenestration of the same area. In addition to the 40 percent WWR limit, the SHGC maximum and the fixed projections requirement, the Standard also requires that solar gain attributed to fenestration be minimized by one of the following strategies:• Reduced fenestration area on the east and west façade.• Improved SHGC of east- and west-facing fenestration by improving the glazing properties, including externalshading, or a combination of both.• A combination of these two strategies.The reduced east- and west-oriented fenestration requirement encourages building owners and designers to orient buildings with the long dimension along the east-west axis, placing more fenestration on the north and south façade.Compliance must be shown using one of two paths. The first path in Section 701.4.2.10(a) [§ 7.4.2.10) (a)] only considers area and requires that the west-oriented fenestration area be less than or equal to one quarter of the sum of the northfacing and south-facing fenestration area. This requirement also applies to east-oriented fenestration. The requirement encourages buildings with an equal WWR on all four sides to have an aspect ratio of 2-to-1 with the long dimension along the east-west axis. When the building orientation is constrained, this requirement encourages less east- and west-oriented fenestration.The second path in Section 701.4.2.10(b) [§ 7.4.2.10) (b)] considers both area and SHGC and requires that the product of the fenestration area and SHGC of the west-oriented fenestration be less than or equal to one sixth of the product of the north-facing fenestration area and the north-facing SHGC criteria plus the south-facing fenestration area and the south-facing SHGC criteria. The SHGC criteria are from Section 701.4.2.1 (§ 7.4.2.1).This requirement also applies to the east-oriented fenestration. The SHGC of the east-oriented and west-oriented fenestration is allowed to include the effect of external shading from permanent projections established through Section 701.4.2.7 (§7.4.2.7).Windows that are located within 45 degrees to the nearest cardinal orientation shall meet the requirements of that orientation. For example, a window that is oriented 44 degrees from north can be grouped with all other north-facing glass for the previously described calculations.The option given by the equation in Section 701.4.2.10(a) [§ 7.4.2.10) (a)] saves more energy than the option given by the equation in Section 701.4.2.10(b) [§ 7.4.2.10) (b)] because it reduces the area of the fenestration on the east and west façades. The Section 701.4.2.10(b) [§ 7.4.2.10) (b)] option is included to allow more flexibility for designers who choose to put more fenestration on the east and west facades.Exception to Section 701.4.2.10 (§ 7.4.2.10)The following exceptions apply to buildings with special constraints:1.Street-level fenestration is excepted when it complies with Standard 90.1-2019, Section 5.5.4.4.1, Exception 3.2.Buildings that meet these shading requirements for east- and west-facing fenestration meet this exception. The east-facing requirement is that existing structures or topography shade at least 75 percent of the east fenestration at 9 a.m. on the summer solstice. The west-facing requirement is that existing structures or topography shade at least 75 percent of the west fenestration at 3 p.m. on the summer solstice. This determination should be made for solar time, not considering daylight savings. The summer solstice is usually on June 21 in the Northern Hemisphere and on December 21 in the Southern Hemisphere. The exception does not apply for shading from trees or other vegetation.3.Alternations and additions are excepted when there is no increase in vertical fenestration area.4.When the east- or west-oriented fenestration area is less than 20 percent of the gross wall area for that façade, the requirement will be considered to have been met as long as the SHGC of fenestration on that façade is not greater than 90 percent of the SHGC criteria given in Section 701.4.2.1 (§ 7.4.2.1).
701.4.3 (7.4.3) Heating, ventilating, and air conditioning.The heating, ventilating, and air conditioning shall comply with ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 6, with the following modifications and additions.The heating, ventilating and air-conditioning systems must comply with all relevant requirements in PECC Section C403, except as modified or added to in the GBCP-2023. The standard makes the following modifications and additions to Standard 90.1—2019, Section 6:Increased HVAC efficiency is required for buildings following the Alternate Renewables Approach [Section 701.4.3.1]. The demand control ventilation (DCV) thresholds are adjusted to require DCV in more instances. Where CO2 sensors are used as part of the DCV system, requirements beyond those of Standard 62.1 and Standard 90.1 are provided in Section 701.4.3.2.Ductwork is required to be tested for leakage where designed to operate at static pressures in excess of 500 Pa versus 750 Pa as specified in Standard 90.1, Section 7.4.3.3.Changes to the minimum system sizes where economizers are applicable, as well as changes to the economizer parameters and applicable exceptions [Section 701.4.3.4].Elimination of zone control allowed by Standard 90.1. Additional allowance for ventilation airflow greater than required by ASHRAE 62.1 [Section 701.4.3.5].Lower fan system power allowance and increased fan efficiency [Section 701.4.3.6].Increased exhaust air energy recovery effectiveness [Section 701.4.3.7].Kitchen hood sizing criteria provided. Additional controls on kitchen hoods.Limitation on extent of makeup air mechanical cooling [Section 701.4.3.8].Increased duct insulation requirements [Section 701.4.3.9].
701.4.3.1 (7.4.3.1) Minimum equipment efficiencies for the alternate renewables approach.All building projects complying with the Alternate Renewables Approach in Section 701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1) and Table 701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1) shall comply with the applicable equipment efficiency requirements in Normative Appendix B and the applicable requirements in Section 701.4.7.3.2 (7.4.7.3.2) or the best international (or equivalent national) practices approved by AHJ. Where equipment efficiency is not defined/listed in Normative Appendix B or in Section 701.4.7.3.2 (7.4.7.3.2) or 701.4.7.6 (7.4.7.6), the equipment shall meet the minimum efficiency requirements defined/listed in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. Specifically, this applies to the following products in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1:a.Table 6.8.1-3, “Water-Chilling Packages—Minimum Efficiency Requirements.”b.Table 6.8.1-10, “Floor-Mounted Air Conditioners and Condensing Units Serving Computer Rooms—Minimum Efficiency Requirements.”c.Table 6.8.1-11, “Commercial Refrigerators, Commercial Freezers, and Refrigeration—Minimum Efficiency Requirements.”d.Table 6.8.1-12, “Vapor-Compression-Based Indoor Pool Dehumidifiers—Minimum Efficiency Requirements.”e.Table 6.8.1-13, “Electrically Operated DX-DOAS Units, Single-Package and Remote Condenser, without Energy Recovery—Minimum Efficiency Requirements.”f.Table 6.8.1-14, “Electrically Operated DX-DOAS Units, Single-Package and Remote Condenser, with Energy Recovery—Minimum Efficiency Requirements.”g.Table 10.8-1, “Minimum Nominal Full-Load Efficiency for NEMA Design A, NEMA Design B, and IEC Design N Motors (Excluding Fire Pump Electric Motors) at 60 Hz” (NEMA MG 1).h.Table 10.8-2, “Minimum Nominal Full-Load Efficiency for NEMA Design C and IEC Design H Motors at 60 Hz” (NEMA MG 1).i.Table 10.8-3, “Minimum Average Full-Load Efficiency for Polyphase Small Electric Motors.”j.Table 10.8-4, “Minimum Average Full-Load Efficiency for Capacitor-Start Capacitor-Run and Capacitor-Start Induction-Run Small Electric Motors.”k.Table 10.8-5, “Minimum Nominal Full-Load Efficiency for Fire Pump Electric Motors.”GBCP-2023 Section 701.4.1.1 offers two compliance paths for including on-site renewable energy. The first compliance path, the Standard Renewables Approach, establishes the baseline minimum on-site renewable energy requirement. The second path, the Alternate Renewables Approach, requires less on-site renewable energy but increased HVAC equipment efficiency.Where the Standard Renewables Approach is used, the requirements of this section do not apply and the design team must select HVAC equipment that meets the minimum efficiency ratings provided in PECC C403.The second on-site renewable energy compliance path, the Alternate Renewables Approach, offers a design team the option to install less on-site renewable energy. However, to offset the impact of reduced renewable energy, the higher minimum HVAC equipment efficiencies of this section must be followed.When using this section, the design team must select HVAC equipment that meets the minimum equipment efficiencies provided in the GBCP-2023. The efficiency of these types of HVAC equipment must satisfy the minimum applicable efficiency requirements provided in this section and Section 701.4.7.3.2. Note that minimum efficiencies for non-HVAC appliances are also provided in Section 701.4.7.3.2.
701.4.3.1.1 (7.4.3.1.1) Water-cooled centrifugal chiller packages efficiency adjustment.a.For water-cooled centrifugal units rated per AHRI Standard 550/590 (I-P). Equipment not designed for operation at AHRI Standard 550/590 test conditions of 44.00°F leaving and 54.00°F entering chilled-fluid temperatures, and with 85.00°F entering and 94.30°F leaving condenser-fluid temperatures, shall have maximum full-load (FL) kW/ton and part-load rating requirements adjusted using the following equations:FLadj = FL/KadjPLVadj = IPLV/KadjKadj = A × Bwhere:FL = Full-load kW/ton value from ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Table 6.8.1-3.FLadj = Maximum full-load kW/ton rating, adjusted for nonstandard conditions.IPLV = IPLV value from ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Table 6.8.1-3.PLVadj = Maximum NPLV rating, adjusted for nonstandard conditions.A = 0.000000145920 × (LIFT)4 – 0.0000346496 × (LIFT)3 + 0.00314196 × (LIFT)2 – 0.147199 × (LIFT) + 3.93073.B = 0.0015 × LvgEvap + 0.934.LIFT = LvgCond – LvgEvap.LvgCond = Full-load condenser leaving fluid temperature, °F.LvgEvap = Full-load evaporator leaving temperature, °F.The FLadj and PLVadj values are only applicable for centrifugal chillers meeting all of the following full-load design ranges:•36.00°F ≤ LvgEvap ≤ 60.00°F.•LvgCond ≤ 115.00°F.•20.00°F ≤ LIFT ≤ 80.00°F.Centrifugal chillers designed to operate outside of these ranges are not covered by this code.b.For water-cooled centrifugal units rated per AHRI Standard 551/591 (SI). Equipment not designed for operation at AHRI Standard 551/591 test conditions of 7.00°C leaving and 12.00°C entering chilled-fluid temperatures, and with 30.00°C entering and 35.00°C leaving condenser-fluid temperatures, shall have maximum full-load (FL) COP and part-load rating requirements adjusted using the following equations:FLadj = FL × KadjPLVadj = IPLV × KadjKadj = A × Bwhere:FL = Full-load COP value from ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Table 6.8.1-3.FLadj = Minimum full-load COP rating, adjusted for nonstandard conditions.IPLV = IPLV value from ANSI/ ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Table 6.8.1-3.PLV adj = Minimum NPLV rating, adjusted for nonstandard conditions.A = 0.00000153181 × (LIFT)4 – 0.000202076 × (LIFT)3 + 0.0101800 × (LIFT)2 – 0.264958 × LIFT + 3.93073.B = 0.0027 × LvgEvap + 0.982.LIFT =
LvgCond – LvgEvap.LvgCond = Full-load condenser leaving fluid temperature, °C.LvgEvap = Full-load evaporator leaving temperature, °C.The FL adj and PLVadj values are only applicable for centrifugal chillers meeting all of the following full-load design ranges:•2.20°C ≤ LvgEvap ≤ 15.60°C.•LvgCond ≤ 46.00°C.•11.00°C ≤ LIFT ≤ 44.00°C.Centrifugal chillers designed to operate outside of these ranges are not covered by this code.GBCP-2023 Section 701.4.1.1 offers two compliance paths for including on-site renewable energy. The first compliance path, the Standard Renewables Approach, establishes the baseline minimum on-site renewable energy requirement. The second path, the Alternate Renewables Approach, requires less on-site renewable energy but increased HVAC equipment efficiency.Where the Standard Renewables Approach is used, the requirements of this section do not apply, and the design teammust select HVAC equipment that meets the minimum efficiency ratings provided in PECC.The second on-site renewable energy compliance path, the Alternate Renewables Approach, offers a design team the option to install less on-site renewable energy. However, to offset the impact of reduced renewable energy, the higher minimum HVAC equipment efficiencies of this section must be followed.When using this section, the design team must select HVAC equipment that meets the minimum equipment efficiencies provided in the GBCP-2023. The efficiency of these types of HVAC equipment must satisfy the minimum applicable efficiency requirements provided in this section and Section 701.4.7.3.2. Note that minimum efficiencies for non-HVAC appliances are also provided in Section 701.4.7.3.2.
701.4.3.2 (7.4.3.2) [JO] Ventilation controls for densely occupied spaces.The requirements in this section supersede those in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 6.4.3.8. Demand control ventilation (DCV) shall be provided for densely occupied spaces served by systems with one or more of the following:a.An air-side economizer.b.Automatic modulating control of the outdoor air dampers.c.A design outdoor airflow greater than 1000 cfm (500 L/s).Exceptions:1.Systems with exhaust air energy recovery complying with Section 701.4.3.7 (7.4.3.7).2.Systems with a design outdoor airflow less than 750 cfm (375 L/s).3.Spaces where more than 75% of the space design outdoor airflow is used as makeup air or transfer air to provide makeup air for other spaces.4.Spaces with one of the following occupancy categories as listed in ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 62.1: cells in correctional facilities; daycare sickrooms; science laboratories; barbershops; beauty and nail salons; and bowling alleys (seating).The DCV system shall be designed to comply with ASHRAE Standard 62.1, Section 6.2.6.1. Occupancy assumptions shall be shown in the design documents for spaces provided with DCV. All CO2 sensors used as part of a DCV system or any other system that dynamically controls outdoor air shall meet the following requirements:a.Spaces with CO2 sensors or air-sampling probes leading to a central CO2 monitoring station shall be provided with at least one sensor or probe for each 10,000 ft2 (1000 m2) of floor space. Sensors or probes shall be installed between 3 and 6 ft (1 and 2 m) above the floor.b.Outdoor air CO2 concentrations shall be determined by one of the following:1.Outdoor air CO2 concentrations shall be dynamically measured using one or multiple CO2 sensors. The CO2 sensor locations shall be identified on the construction documents.2.When documented statistical data on the local ambient CO2 concentrations are available, a fixed value typical of the location where the building is located shall be allowed in lieu of an outdoor sensor.c.Occupant CO2 generation rate assumptions shall be shown in the design documents.Providing unnecessary excess ventilation air to an unoccupied space can lead to excessive energy consumption due to the heating and cooling energy associated with tempering and/or dehumidifying outdoor air. In addition, maintaining high airflow rates at the zone level in variable-air-volume (VAV) systems not only increases fan energy but also increases the reheat energy necessary to prevent overcooling a zone with few or no occupants. DCV reduces the energy spent on unnecessary ventilation by reducing the system outdoor airflow as well as reducing the airflow at the zone level. To increase the energy savings associated with implementing DCV, the GBCP-2023 adjusts the qualifying thresholds at which DCV must be implemented. Similar to Standard 90.1, DCV is required where the spaces served by the system include one or more of the following:An air-side economizer.Automatic modulating control of the outdoor air damper.A design outdoor airflow greater than 500 L/s.The first exception to DCV in the GBCP-2023 applies to systems that use energy recovery in accordance with Section 701.4.3.7. While this requirement appears the same as the heat recovery exception in Standard 90.1-2019, Section 6.4.3.8, it is not. The heat recovery requirements of Section 701.4.3.7 require higher heat recovery effectiveness than those of Standard 90.1.All other exceptions to the DCV requirement in the GBCP-2023 match those of PECC. If Section 701.4.3.2, Exception 3, is used, note that makeup air is defined by Standard 62.1 as “any combination of outdoor and transfer air intended to replace exhaust air and exfiltration.” Therefore, outdoor air required for building pressurization is considered makeup air by the GBCP-2023For the GBCP-2023, DCV systems must be designed and installed in accordance with Standard 62.1-2019, Section 6.2.6.1. A full description of DCV systems is provided in Standard 62.1-2019 and the Standard 62.1 User’s Manual.To document compliance with the requirements of Section 701.4.3.2, design documents for spaces required to have DCV must show the designers’ occupancy assumptions. Occupancy assumptions should also be listed for spaces that typically have high occupancies (such as conference rooms, classrooms and audience seating areas), even when the predicted occupant density is slightly less than 25 people per 100 m2.The GBCP-2023 also adds specific requirements where CO2 sensors are used as part of a DCV system or any other system that dynamically controls outdoor air. These CO2 sensor requirements are in addition to all DCV requirements listed in Standard 62.1-2019. Note that the GBCP-2023 does not require CO2 sensors to satisfy the DCV system requirements, but any time CO2 sensors are used to dynamically control outdoor air volume, they must meet all of these requirements:Sensor Quantity. At least one CO2 sensor or air-sampling probe must be provided per 1000 m2 of contiguous floor space where DCV is required.Sensor Accuracy. Sensors must have a rated accuracy of +/-0.05 kilograms per cubic meter (kg/m3) when 1 kilogram per cubic meter (kg/m3) of CO2 is present.Determination of Outdoor Air CO2. Where DCV modulation is based on the difference between outdoor air CO2 concentrations and CO2 concentrations at the indoor sensor location, designers may opt to use either outdoor air CO2 sensors or documented statistical data regarding local ambient CO2 concentrations. If they choose the former, one or more outdoor air CO2 sensors may be provided for the building project and used to report outdoor air CO2 levels to the BAS for use in HVAC control logic as needed. The locations of such sensors are required to be identified on the construction documents.Consideration must be given to the location of the CO2 sensor, as placement too close to relief air terminals or combustion flues will skew the measured CO2 level.If statistical data are used, a single value should be used for the entire year— namely, the average annual CO2 concentrations during occupied hours.
701.4.3.3 (7.4.3.3) Duct leakage tests.Leakage tests shall comply with the requirements in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 6.4.4.2.2, with the following modification. Ductwork that is designed to operate at static pressures in excess of 2 in. of water (500 Pa), and all ductwork located outdoors, shall be leak-tested according to industry-accepted test procedures.Ductwork designed to operate at static pressures exceeding 500 Pa of water, and all outdoor ductwork, are required to be tested to industry-accepted test procedures, such as those in the 2012 Duct Leakage Test Procedures published by the Sheet Metal and Air Conditioning Contractors’ National Association (SMACNA).
701.4.3.4 (7.4.3.4) [JO] Economizers.Systems shall include economizers meeting the requirements in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 6.5.1, except as modified by the following:a.The minimum size requirements for economizers for comfort cooling and for computer rooms are defined in Table 701.4.3.4 (7.4.3.4) and supersede the requirements in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Tables 6.5.1-1 and 6.5.1-2.b.Rooftop units with a capacity of less than 54,000 Btu/h (16 kW) shall have two stages of capacity control, with the first stage controlling the economizer and the second stage controlling mechanical cooling. Units with a capacity equal to or greater than 54,000 Btu/h (16 kW) shall comply with the staging requirements defined in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 6.5.3.1.c.For systems that control to a fixed leaving air temperature (i.e., variable-air-volume [VAV] systems), the system shall be capable of resetting the supply air temperature up at least 5°F (3°C) during economizer operation.All the exceptions in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 6.5.1, shall apply except as modified by the following:a.Where the alternate renewables approach defined in Section 701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1) and Table 701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1) is used, ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 6.5.1, Exception 10, shall be permitted to eliminate the economizer requirement, provided the requirements in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Table 6.5.1-2, are applied to the efficiency requirements required by Section 701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1) and Table 701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1). If the standard renewable approach is chosen, as defined in Section 701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1) and Table 701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1), then the requirements in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Table 6.5.1-2, shall be applied to the efficiency requirements in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Tables 6.8.1-1 through 6.8.1-11.b.For water-cooled units with a capacity less than 54,000 Btu/h (16 kW) that are used in systems where heating and cooling loads are transferred within the building (i.e., water-source heat-pump systems), the requirement for an air or water economizer can be eliminated if the condenser-water temperature controls are capable of being set to maintain full-load heat rejection capacity down to a 55°F (12°C) condenser-water supply temperature, and the HVAC equipment is capable of operating with a 55°F (12°C) condenser-water supply temperature.
TABLE 701.4.3.4 (TABLE 7.4.3.4)MINIMUM SYSTEM SIZE FOR WHICH AN ECONOMIZER IS REQUIRED
CLIMATE ZONES COOLING CAPACITY FOR WHICH AN ECONOMIZER IS REQUIRED1
Zone 1 No economizer requirement
Zone 2   33,000 Btu/h (9.7 kW) a
a.Where economizers are required, the total capacity of all systems without economizers shall not exceed 140 kW per building or 20% of the building’s air economizer capacity, whichever is greater.
Either an air or water economizer is required for individual cooling systems used for comfort cooling or computer room cooling that have a cooling capacity 9.7 kW or greater. The economizer requirement applies to projects in all climate zones except 0A, 0B, 1A or 1B. Relative to Standard 90.1-2019, Section 6.5.1, the economizer requirements of the GBCP-2023:• Lower the cooling capacity threshold for which economizer is required for both comfort cooling and computer room cooling applications;• Modify the economizer staging for small units with cooling capacity below the Standard 90.1 economizer requirement threshold;• Specify a minimum supply air temperature reset for VAV systems and systems that control to a leaving air temperature;• Modify the efficiency thresholds for elimination of economizer by increasing cooling efficiency; and• Extend the exception for water-cooled equipment where the rejected heat can be reclaimed elsewhere in the building (e.g., water-source heat pumps).• Note that, similar to the ASHRAE 90.1 definition, a cooling system is considered an individual cooling system that has a fan and not the combined capacity of a central system.• All economizer exceptions in the PECC apply to the GBCP-2023 with the exception of the following modifications:• Economizer Exception for Increased Cooling Efficiency. PECC makes an exception for cooling equipment whose efficiency is improved enough to offset the energy savings associated with an economizer. This exception applies to DX packaged or split systems and air-cooled chillers used in comfort cooling applications. For a cooling system to comply with this exception, the efficiency of the selected cooling equipment must be no less than minimum baseline equipment cooling efficiency increased by the percentage specified by the PECC. Where the Standard Renewables Approach in GBCP-2023 Section 701.4.1.1 is used, the PECC set the baseline HVAC equipment efficiency. Where the Alternate Renewables Approach in Section 701.4.1.1 is used, GBCP-2023 Appendix B tables set the baseline HVAC equipment efficiency, Integrated Energy Efficiency Ratio (IEER) or Seasonal Energy Efficiency Rating (SEER) value for DX HVAC equipment that includes these part-load or annualized ratings, and to the full-load Energy Efficiency Rating (EER) for all other DX HVAC equipment.• Economizer Exception for Transferred Load. For water-cooled units with capacities less than 16 kW that are used in systems where heating and cooling loads are transferred within the building (i.e., water-source heat pump systems), the requirement for an air or water economizer can be eliminated if the condenser-water temperature controls can be set to maintain full-load heat rejection capacity down to a condenser-water supply temperature of 12°C and if the HVAC equipment is capable of operating with 12°C condenser water.• Economizer controls must meet all requirements of Standard 90.1-2019, Section 6.5.1.1, for air economizers, and Section 6.5.1.2 for water economizers.Economizer TypesAll air-side economizers use cool outdoor air directly to reduce cooling load. Water economizers by contrast come in two common types: water precooling and air precooling. (The strainer-cycle or chiller-bypass water economizer alone cannot meet the requirements for integrated economizers and therefore cannot be used to meet the requirements of the GBCP-2023.)•Water-Precooling Water Economizer. This type of economizer uses cold tower water when it is available to precool chilled-water return (through a heat exchanger) before it enters the chiller. One advantage of this type of economizer over the strainer-cycle type is that it is integrated, meaning it can provide free cooling even when the chillers are operating by reducing chilled-water return temperatures. It also isolates the open-circuit tower system from the chilled-water system with the heat exchanger, reducing fouling problems caused by the poor water quality of the open circuit. The heat exchanger reduces the cooling energy savings because the water leaving the heat exchanger cannot be as cold as the tower water, and it increases pump energy during economizer operation because of the pressure drop of the heat exchanger. While the system described can meet the GBCP-2023 requirements, this type of economizer works best when chilled-water return temperatures are kept high, which improves heat exchanger effectiveness and allows precooling at warmer tower water temperatures. This can be achieved by using two-way valves at cooling coils. With two-way valves, return water temperatures will actually rise above design levels at partial load due to the characteristics of cooling-coil heat transfer.•Air-Precooling Water Economizer. This type of water economizer requires an additional cooling coil upstream of the normal mechanical cooling coil, as shown in Figure 7-B. Water from the cooling tower first passes through the economizer coil, precooling or fully cooling the supply air, then goes on to remove condenser heat from the mechanical cooling system, with water flow modulated or bypassed to maintain head pressures (a control required due to the cold water temperatures). A three-way control valve ensures that if the tower water is warmer than the return air, it bypasses the coil to avoid warming the air and increasing the cooling load. This is similar to the high-limit control used with air economizers. Because the economizer and mechanical cooling can operate concurrently with this type of economizer, it is integrated. This scheme is very popular where water-cooled air conditioners are used, as the condenser water must be piped to the units anyway, so the only expense of the water economizer is the added coil and controls.Figure 7-BWater economizer precooling coil diagram.
(Source: Standard 90.1-2019 User’s Manual, Figure 6-L)For rooftop air-handling units (AHUs) whose cooling capacity is above the GBCP-2023 economizer threshold of 9.7 kW cooling capacity and below 16 kW cooling capacity (the Standard 90.1-2019 threshold for comfort cooling), the economizer is required to be the first stage of cooling, and mechanical cooling is required as the second stage of cooling. The economizer and mechanical cooling are not required to run together. This is because units in this capacity range often have a single compressor and are unable to satisfy the integrated economizer control requirements in Standard 90.1-2019, Section 6.5.1.3. The use of an integrated economizer on single-compressor air conditioners or heat pumps (that do not include variable-speed or variable-capacity compressors) can lead to evaporator coil freezing or compressor short cycling, as the cooling load is low during integrated economizer operation. To eliminate this potential risk, the GBCP-2023 requires smaller units to use either economizer or mechanical cooling. When the outdoor air conditions are appropriate, the economizer is used to satisfy the cooling load. The economizer modulates the outdoor airflow or the cooling tower water flow to satisfy the cooling load. If the economizer cannot satisfy the cooling load, it is stopped and mechanical cooling is used.• Where the air-handling equipment adjusts the cooling capacity to directly satisfy a supply air temperature rather than a space temperature (as in a multizone or single-zone VAV system), the control logic that establishes the supply air temperature setpoint must include reset logic that can reset the setpoint by not less than 3°C higher. Although the system must be capable of resetting up, it is not required to reset if the reset temperature will not satisfy the cooling load. However, by increasing the supply air temperature setpoint when possible, the potential hours of economizer operation are increased by the ability to make use of warmer outdoor air and further reducing the mechanical cooling required.
701.4.3.5 (7.4.3.5) [JO] Zone controls.The exceptions to ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 6.5.2.1, shall be modified as follows:a.Exception 1 shall not be used.b.Exception 2(a)(2) shall be replaced by the following text: “the design outdoor airflow rate for the zone.”Zone thermostatic controls capable of sequencing the supply of heating and cooling to each space must be provided consistent with PECC Section C403.6 [GBCP-2023 Section 701.4.3.5]. This requirement is intended to reduce energy consumption associated with simultaneous heating and cooling.These controls must prevent the following:• Reheating.• Recooling.• Mixing or simultaneous supply of air that has been previously mechanically heated and air that has been previously cooled, either mechanically or by economizer systems.• Other simultaneous operation of heating and cooling systems to the same zone.
701.4.3.6 (7.4.3.6) Fan system power and efficiency.Fans are among the largest energy-using components of HVAC systems. As such, fan power at design conditions and fan efficiency (overall and at design conditions) is regulated by this section.
701.4.3.6.1 (7.4.3.6.1) Fan system power limitation.Systems shall have fan power limitations 10% below limitations specified in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Table 6.5.3.1-1. This requirement supersedes the requirement in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 6.5.3.1 and Table 6.5.3.1-1. All exceptions in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 6.5.3.1, shall apply.The GBCP-2023 reduces fan power allowances by 10% as compared to PECC Section 6.5.3.1. The new fan power allowances can be calculated by applying the equations in PECC and multiplying the resulting value by 90%.• Fan system power is the sum of the nameplate power of all fans in a system that must operate at design conditions to supply air from the heating or cooling source to the conditioned spaces and then return it to the source or exhaust it to the outdoors. The following guidelines should be used to determine fan system power:⚬ One fan system is separate from another if they have different heat or cooling sources. For instance, if two air handlers, each with separate supply fans and heating and cooling coils, supply a large ballroom, they are considered two separate systems, even though they both serve the same room.⚬ Fans that ventilate only, such as garage exhaust fans or equipment room ventilation fans that transfer only unconditioned outdoor air, do not qualify in this context. Fans must be part of a system with heating or cooling capability.⚬ Only fans that operate simultaneously during design conditions must be included in the calculation. For a heating-only fan system, only fans that operate at design heating conditions are included; for cooling-only systems, only fans that operate at design cooling conditions are included. Systems that have both heating and cooling capabilities must meet the fan power limitation in both heating and cooling design conditions.⚬ Individual exhaust fans 0.75 kW or less may be excluded from the calculation.The fan power limit is expressed in one of two ways. Option 1 specifies the maximum nameplate horsepower (kilowatts). This option is simple to apply but does not consider special filters or other features that change the pressure on the fans and affect the fan power.Fan System Power Limitation Option 1Under this option, a limit is placed on the fan system motor nameplate power. The nature of that limit depends on whether designers will use a constant-volume fan or a variable-volume fan system. The GBCP-2023 limit for constantvolume fan systems is 10% below (90% of) PECC fan power allowance.
701.4.3.6.2 (7.4.3.6.2) Fan efficiency.The fan efficiency requirements defined in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 6.5.3.1.3, shall be used, except that the fan energy index (FEI) at the design point of operation shall be 1.10 or greater. All exceptions in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 6.5.3.1.3, shall apply.A new fan efficiency metric called Fan Energy Index (FEI), which was developed by AMCA International in their calculation standard ANSI/AMCA 208—2018, was added to the GBCP-2023.FEI is a ratio of the electrical input power of a reference fan to the subject fan. The lower the subject fan’s electrical input power, the higher the FEI rating. FEI is a wire-to-air metric that considers losses of motors, variable speed drives, belts, etc. FEI is a simple metric for designers, contractors, manufacturers and code officials to apply and enforce because it does not have a sizing/selection window.Energy savings should result from better fan selections out of existing product portfolios rather than marginal improvements from costly fan redesigns. FEI incentivizes designers to consider whether a fan is compatible with its mechanical drive and the electric motor at all load points.The GBCP-2023 requires a 10% efficiency improvement compared to base requirements in the PECC.
701.4.3.6.3 (7.4.3.6.3)
Low-power ventilation systems.Ventilation systems shall meet the fan efficacy requirements of Table 701.4.3.6.3 (7.4.3.6.3).Exceptions:1.Fans in fan coils and terminal units that operate only when providing heating to the space served.2.Fans in space conditioning equipment certified under ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 6.4.1.3.Intermittently operating dryer exhaust duct power ventilators, domestic range hoods, or domestic range booster fans.4.Ventilation systems with fan motor nameplate power ≥ 1/12 hp (62.1 W).5. Ventilation fans with fan nameplate electrical input power ≥ 180 W.
TABLE 701.4.3.6.3 (TABLE 7.4.3.6.3)MINIMUM VENTILATION FAN EFFICACY REQUIREMENTS
FAN TYPE MINIMUM EFFICACY NAMEPLATE RATING TEST METHOD AND RATING CONDITIONS
Fan system with exhaust air energy recovery 1.2 cfm/W (0.6 L/s/W) CAN/CSA 439-18 • Efficacy for a fan system providing exhaust air energy recovery is that associated with the average of the system’s supply and exhaust flow rate
Bathroom, utility room ≥ 90 cfm (40 L/s) 6.0 cfm/W (2.8 L/s/W) ENERGY STAR Specification for Residential Ventilating Fans • Eligibility Criteria Version 4.1
This new section for the 2021 GBCP-2023 contains requirements for low-capacity exhaust fans, including bathroom and utility room exhaust fans greater than 2.5 m3/m and fan systems with exhaust air energy recovery. While these fans are typically designed and sold for use in single-family residences, midrise residential occupancies and small commercial buildings often use the same small ventilation fans. These fans are frequently used as part of a ventilation strategy in multifamily buildings for point-of-source contaminant exhaust. They are a common load, and potentially sum to a significant load in those multifamily buildings regulated by the GBCP-2023.Fan systems with exhaust air energy recovery are required to have a minimum efficacy nameplate rating of ≥ 1/12 hp (62.1 W). Bathroom and utility room fans providing airflow greater than or equal to 40 L/s must have a nameplate rating of ≥ 180 W (2.8 L/s/W).
701.4.3.7 (7.4.3.7) [JO] Exhaust air energy recovery.The exhaust air energy recovery requirements defined in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 6.5.6.1.2, including the requirements in Tables 6.5.6.1.2-1 and 6.5.6.1.2-2, shall be used except that the enthalpy recovery ratio shall not be less than 60%, superseding the 50% effectiveness requirement in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 6.5.6.1.Exhaust air energy recovery is the process of exchanging energy in the form of sensible and latent heat between the exhaust and outdoor airstreams. This reduces energy consumption in the following ways:• During periods of heating, the exhaust air can preheat the cool outdoor air through sensible (dry) exchange. During periods of cooling, the exhaust air can precool the hot outdoor air through sensible (dry) exchange.• During periods of cooling, dry exhaust air can be used to dehumidify moist outdoor air through latent exchange.•During periods of heating, exhaust air can be used to humidify dry outdoor air through latent exchange.The requirement for inclusion of heat recovery is provided in Standard 90.1-2019, Section 6.5.6.1, and is dependent on the annual hours of operation, percentage of outdoor air and climate zone. However, to comply with the requirements of this section, the minimum allowable exhaust air enthalpy recovery ratio is greater. Where Standard 90.1-2019 requires an enthalpy recovery ratio of 50%, the GBCP-2023 requires an enthalpy recovery ratio of not less than 60% at design conditions (not at a standard rating condition). Effectiveness is the change in the outdoor air enthalpy across the heat recovery device relative to the enthalpy difference between the relief/exhaust air and the outdoor air. Simply put, effectiveness is how much energy is recovered from the exhaust air with energy recovery versus the total energy available in exhaust air.Consideration should be given to the type of energy recovery (sensible or total) selected for the application. Sensible heat recovery methods (air-to-air plate heat exchangers, runaround coil loops, heat pipes, sensible wheels) will typically require a higher change in dry-bulb temperature to achieve the same effectiveness as a total heat recovery method (enthalpy wheel or total energy air-to-air media). This may result in a higher pressure drop or a larger heat exchanger for a sensible method of heat recovery to achieve the required effectiveness relative to a total energy recovery method. This does not mean total heat recovery is always the right choice. Cross-contamination concerns, equipment physical location and a desire to use outdoor air for dehumidification may be factors that limit heat recovery options to those that only provide sensible recovery.Exhaust air energy recovery systems must be installed with bypass or other controls to permit air-economizer operation where economizers are prescribed in Section 701.4.3.4.
701.4.3.8 (7.4.3.8)
[JO] Kitchen exhaust systems.The requirements in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 6.5.7.2 shall apply, except as follows: Sections 701.4.3.8.1 (7.4.3.8.1) and 701.4.3.8.2 (7.4.3.8.2) supersede the requirements in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Sections 6.5.7.2.2 and 6.5.7.2.3.PECC establishes the minimum energy performance criteria for kitchen exhaust systems for this section. The requirement is not modified or superseded by this section of the GBCP-2023 and covers the following aspects of kitchen exhaust systems:• The maximum amount of replacement air that can be supplied directly into a kitchen exhaust hood.• Performance testing of the kitchen exhaust system.However, PECC, which regulates the hood performance and makeup air treatment, is replaced by GBCP-2023 Sections 701.4.3.8.1 and 701.4.3.8.2.
701.4.3.8.1 (7.4.3.8.1)
For kitchen/dining facilities with total kitchen hood exhaust airflow rate greater than 2000 cfm (950 L/s), the maximum exhaust flow rate for each hood shall be determined in accordance with Table 701.4.3.8.1 (7.4.3.8.1). For single hoods, or hood sections installed over appliances with different duty ratings, the maximum allowable exhaust flow rate for the hood or hood section shall be determined in accordance with Table 701.4.3.8.1 (7.4.3.8.1) for the highest appliance duty rating under the hood or hood section. Refer to ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 154 for definitions of hood type, appliance duty, and net exhaust flow rate.Exception: When at least 75% of all the replacement air is transfer air that would otherwise be exhausted.
TABLE 701.4.3.8.1 (TABLE 7.4.3.8.1)MAXIMUM NET EXHAUST FLOW RATE PER LENGTH OF HOOD
TYPE OF HOOD LIGHT-DUTYEQUIPMENT MEDIUM-DUTYEQUIPMENT HEAVY-DUTYEQUIPMENT EXTRA-HEAVY-DUTYEQUIPMENT
cfm perlinear foot L/s perlinear meter cfm per linearfoot L/s per linearmeter cfm per linearfoot L/s per linearmeter cfm per linearfoot L/s per linearmeter
Wall-mounted canopy 140 217 210 325 280 433 385 596
Single island a 280 433 350 541 420 650 490 758
Double island (per side) 175 271 210 325 280 433 385 596
Eyebrow 175 271 175 271 NA b NA b NA b NA b
Backshelf/Passover 210 325 210 325 280 433 NA b NA b
a. The total exhaust flow rate for all single-island hoods in a kitchen/dining facility shall be no more than 5000 cfm (2360 L/s).b. NA = Not Allowed.This section specifies minimum hood performance for kitchen exhaust hoods and replaces Standard 90.1-2019, Section 6.5.7.2.2. It does not apply to commercial kitchens that make up 75% or more of the kitchen exhaust system airflow with transfer air from another space that would have been otherwise relieved or exhausted. This section differs from the corresponding section in Standard 90.1 in two ways:• The total system exhaust threshold for when the section requirements must be applied has been reduced.• A maximum hood exhaust airflow from a single island hood may not be exceeded.PECC applies to exhaust systems whose total exhaust exceeds 2400 L/s, while the threshold of this section is 2000 cfm (950 L/s). Therefore, the exhaust hood requirements of this section will apply to smaller commercial kitchen exhaust hoods that are not regulated by PECC.Where the total kitchen exhaust airflow threshold is exceeded, the airflow of each kitchen hood must comply with the airflow limits provided in Table 701.4.3.8.1. The airflow limits of this table match the limits provided in the PECC, but Table 701.4.3.8.1 adds Note a. This note sets a maximum exhaust airflow limit of 2360 L/s for each single island hood.Table 701.4.3.8.1 provides maximum exhaust airflow per linear foot of hood for a given cooking appliance duty and hood type used. The linear foot total of the hood is the length of the front of the hood. The depth of the hood does not affect the allowable exhaust rate. Examples of the hood types are shown in Figure 7-C. To determine the type (I or II) and duty (light, medium, heavy or extra heavy) of hood required for a given application, Standard 154-2016, Tables 1 and 2, provide an extensive list of kitchen appliances and the respective hood type and duty required.
701.4.3.8.2 (7.4.3.8.2)
Kitchen/dining facilities with total kitchen hood exhaust airflow rate greater than 2000 cfm (950 L/s) shall comply with at least one of the following:a. At least 50% of all replacement air must be transfer air that would otherwise be exhausted.b. At least 75% of kitchen hood exhaust air shall be controlled by demand ventilation system, which shall:1. Be capable of reducing exhaust and replacement air system airflow rates by no more than the larger of:i. 50% of total design exhaust and replacement air system airflow rate; orii. The outdoor airflow and exhaust rates required to meet the ventilation and exhaust requirements of ASHRAE Standard 62.1, Sections 6.2 and 6.5, for the zone.2. Include controls to modulate airflow in response to appliance operation and to maintain full capture and containment of smoke, effluent, and combustion products during cooking and idle;3. Include controls that result in full flow when the demand ventilation systems fail to modulate airflow in response to appliance operation; and4. Allow occupants to temporarily override the systems to full flow.c. Listed energy recovery devices with a sensible energy recovery ratio of not less than 40% shall be applied on at least 50% of the total exhaust airflow. A 40% sensible energy recovery ratio shall mean a change in the dry-bulb temperature of the outdoor air supply equal to 40% of the difference between the outdoor air and entering exhaust air dry-bulb temperatures at design conditions.d. In Climate Zones 1 and 2, when makeup air is uncooled or cooled without the use of mechanical cooling, the capacity of any nonmechanical cooling systems (Informative Note: e.g., natural cooling or evaporative cooling) shall be demonstrated to be no less than the system capacity of a mechanical cooling system necessary to meet the same loads under design conditions.This section applies to kitchen exhaust systems where the total system exhaust airflow is greater than 950 L/s. Although similar in purpose, this section replaces PECC Section C403.7.5 entirely. These requirements serve to reduce energy spent tempering makeup air for commercial kitchen exhaust by implementing one of four options:a. Use transfer air for kitchen exhaust makeup air.b. Implement variable flow exhaust on 75% of the kitchen exhaust system airflow.c. Provide listed exhaust air energy recovery.d. Provide nonmechanical cooling (natural cooling or evaporative cooling) in arid climates capable of satisfying the design cooling load.Option a requires transferring 50% of the kitchen exhaust makeup air from an adjacent space. This is based on the stipulation that the air being transferred would have been relieved had it not been transferred. For example, a typical family dining restaurant will have both a commercial kitchen and a large dining area. Due to the occupancy of the dining room, a high outdoor airflow will be required to properly ventilate the dining room. This same airflow must also be relieved from the dining area to maintain airflow balance. Rather than exhaust this air directly from the dining area, it can be transferred to the kitchen and exhausted through the kitchen exhaust system. This reduces the total outdoor airflow required for the building.However, special considerations must be made when implementing this option. In accordance with Standard 62.1-2019, the occupant density of a restaurant dining room is 70 people per 100 square meters (70 people/100 m2). This exceeds the threshold for DCV. The DCV in the dining room will reduce the outdoor airflow when the occupancy is low. The peak kitchen use may not always coincide with the peak dining room occupancy. Therefore, controls must be included that override the dining room DCV to provide makeup air to the kitchen when necessary.Option b requires inclusion of demand ventilation for the supply and exhaust for 75% of the commercial kitchen exhaust system. The demand ventilation system must be capable of achieving four control requirements:• The system must reduce both the exhaust and makeup airflow. The airflow must be reduced such that the exhaust rate does not fall below 50% of the design airflow and the outdoor airflow does not fall below the airflow required by Standard 62.1-2019.• The controls must modulate the kitchen exhaust system airflow in response to the utilization of the appliances being exhausted. These controls often implement infrared temperature sensors, electrical current sensors, gas flowmeters or other methods to determine the exhaust airflow necessary to effectively capture cooking effluents.• Should the demand ventilation operation fail to receive a control signal or receive an inappropriate control signal from the sensors monitoring the appliances, it should fail-safe by defaulting to the design exhaust and makeup airflow. In this instance, it would be appropriate to also generate an alarm to notify maintenance staff of a malfunction.• The control system must finally include a manual override accessible to the kitchen occupants. This override gives the occupants the ability to drive the exhaust and makeup to the design airflow regardless of the cooking appliance utilization. Although not required by the GBCP-2023, consideration should be given to implementing a timer or daily reset on such an override. This would prevent the occupants from holding the system in an override mode indefinitely.Option c offers the option of implementing heat recovery on the kitchen exhaust system. While kitchen exhaust contains a significant amount of heat, it also includes grease and other cooking effluents. Therefore, the energy recovery used must be specifically listed for use in a kitchen exhaust application. These systems: include specific safety controls; implement robust heat exchangers; include appropriate filtration; allow access for routine maintenance; and include other features that help them obtain a listing and make them safe for use in kitchen exhaust applications. The GBCP-2023 does not dictate what the recovered heat must be used for, but domestic hot-water heating is a significant load in kitchens that is relatively independent of weather conditions. Warm climates can take advantage of such heat. However, in a colder climate, makeup air preheat may offer more significant savings, as the load schedule coincides with the recovery schedule.Option d requires the use of nonmechanical cooling in arid climates instead of mechanical cooling. Nonmechanical cooling includes natural cooling or evaporative cooling. To satisfy the requirements of this option, the cooling capacity of the nonmechanical cooling must have a demonstrated capacity equal to or greater than the mechanical cooling alternative. However, unlike mechanical cooling, the capacity of natural or evaporative cooling is dependent on the outdoor conditions. For example, while evaporative cooling may be able to satisfy the dry-bulb design cooling conditions, other weather conditions may exist that reduce the available cooling capacity. Although further analysis is not required by the GBCP-2023, it may be necessary to determine the sizing and effectiveness of these systems.Figure 7-C
Various commercial hood types and
corresponding length used to establish the maximum allowable airflow.
701.4.3.9 (7.4.3.9)
Automatic control of HVAC and lights in hotel/motel guest rooms. Where hotels and motels have over 50 guest rooms, automatic controls for the lighting, switched outlets, television, and HVAC equipment serving each guest room shall be configured according to the following requirements. Captive keycard systems shall not be used to comply with this section.Section 701.4.3.9 requires automated controls in hotels and motels with more than 50 guestrooms that set back HVAC setpoints and turn off lighting, switched receptacles and televisions when the guestroom is unoccupied. These automatic controls may use a combination of occupancy sensors, door switches, key card readers and other sensors to determine the occupancy of the guestroom. The GBCP-2023 specifically prohibits captive keycard systems from complying with Section 701.4.3.9. These systems require the occupant to place a keycard into a key holder inside the guestroom to prove occupancy. Unfortunately, systems that rely on a captive key can only be overridden by occupants who leave a key in the holder continuously.
701.4.3.9.1 (7.4.3.9.1)
Lighting and switched outlet control.Within 20 minutes of all occupants leaving the guest room, power for lighting and switched outlets shall be automatically turned off.In accordance with the GBCP-2023, the lighting and switched receptacles in a guestroom must be automatically turned off within 20 minutes of the last occupant leaving the space. Additionally, in accordance with Standard 90.1-2019, Section 9.4.1.3(b), the guestroom must turn off the lighting and receptacles after the space has been unoccupied for 20 minutes. The bathroom controls must be independent of the guestroom controls and must turn off the lighting and receptacles after the bathroom has been unoccupied for 20 minutes. Additionally, the Standard 90.1 requirement does not include a qualifier that limits the requirement to hotels/motels with more than 50 guestrooms. Therefore, a hotel/motel compliant with Standard 90.1, Section 9.4.1.3(b), inherently satisfies the lighting and switched receptacle requirement of the GBCP-2023.
701.4.3.9.2 (7.4.3.9.2) Television control.Within 20 minutes of all occupants leaving the guest room, televisions shall be automatically turned off or placed in sleep or standby mode.The television in a hotel/motel guestroom must automatically turn off, enter sleep or enter standby within 30 minutes of the room becoming unoccupied. This requirement can be satisfied with an automatically switched receptacle for the television or through the use of a television that includes integral controls for such operation. If a television with integral controls is used, the settings for adjusting such control should not be accessible to the guestroom occupants.
701.4.3.9.3 (7.4.3.9.3) HVAC set-point control.HVAC system controls shall be in accordance with ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 6.4.3.3.5.1.The HVAC setpoint controls are required to relax the temperature setpoints in a guestroom when it is unoccupied or vacant. These controls may be overridden if humidity control is required in the room during unoccupied or vacant periods. When a guestroom has been unoccupied for not more than 20 minutes, the automated control system must have the capability to raise the temperature setpoint at least 3°C in cooling mode and lower the temperature setpoint at least 3°C in heating mode.When the guestroom is vacant and unoccupied, the setpoint shall be set not lower than 27°C in cooling. Conversely, it must be set not higher than 16°C in heating. To successfully determine guestroom rental status, the GBCP-2023 requires that the automatic controls include specific features.When using an occupancy sensor to determine rental status, the guestroom must be considered vacant when it has been unoccupied for not more than 16 consecutive hours. It may be considered vacant in less than 16 consecutive hours, but not more.When using a networked guestroom control system, the rental status is determined by the hotel/motel staff when a guest is checked in or out of a guestroom. When a guestroom rental status is set to vacant, the controls must set the temperature setpoints to vacant when the room is set to vacant and the room has been unoccupied for not more than 20 minutes.Due to the scheduling and programming flexibility of networked guestroom control systems, these systems may reset the guestroom temperature setpoints to the occupied/rented temperatures up to 60 minutes prior to a scheduled occupancy.
701.4.3.9.4 (7.4.3.9.4) Ventilation control.Within 20 minutes of all occupants leaving the guest room, ventilation and exhaust fans shall be automatically turned off, or isolation devices serving each guest room shall automatically shut off the supply of outdoor air to the room and shut off exhaust air from the guest room. In conjunction with the automatic ventilation shutoff, an automatic preoccupancy purge cycle shall provide outdoor air ventilation as specified in Section 801.3.1.9 (8.3.1.9).In addition to HVAC setpoint control, outdoor airflow and exhaust airflow must be stopped within 20 minutes of the guestroom becoming unoccupied. The design outdoor airflow and exhaust airflow must commence not less than 60 minutes prior to the scheduled occupancy in accordance with GBCP-2023 Section 801.3.1.9. The controls to implement these requirements require communication with the guestroom check-in system to anticipate a scheduled check-in. Additionally, the system must include occupancy or other room sensors to determine when the room becomes un-occupied. This could possibly be achieved with one hotel/motel management system or by providing communication between separate control systems (HVAC controls and hotel management system).
701.4.4 (7.4.4) Service water heating.The service water heating shall comply with ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 7, with the following modifications and additions.All prescriptive requirements listed in the PECC relative to service water heating apply, with the additions listed in Sections 701.4.4.1 and 701.4.4.2.
701.4.4.1 (7.4.4.1) Equipment efficiency for the alternate renewables approach.All building projects complying with the Alternate Renewables Approach in Section 701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1) and Table 701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1) shall comply with the applicable equipment efficiency requirements in Normative Appendix B, Table B101.8 (B-8), and with the applicable requirements in Section 701.4.7.3.2 (7.4.7.3.2). These requirements supersede the requirements in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Table 7.8.Building project teams that choose to follow the Standard Renewables Approach [Section 701.4.1.1; Table 701.4.1.1] must use service water heating equipment that complies with the minimum equipment efficiencies specified in Standard 90.1- 2019, Table 7.8.Where building project teams choose to follow the Alternate Renewables Approach [Section 701.4.1.1; Table 701.4.1.1], the GBCP-2023 section supersedes the PECC. Building projects using the Alternate Renewables Approach must use the minimum service water heating efficiencies in Normative Appendix B, Table B101.8, and the applicable ENERGY STAR or equivalent requirements of Section 701.4.7.3.2. Where service water heating equipment is covered by both Table B101.8 and Section 701.4.7.3.2, the more energy-efficient requirement must be satisfied.
701.4.4.2 (7.4.4.2) Buildings with high-capacity service water heating systems.This section supersedes ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 7.5.3. New buildings with service water heating systems with a total installed water heating input capacity of 1,000,000 Btu/h (300 kW) or greater shall meet the following:a.Fuel-burning water heating equipment shall have a minimum rated efficiency of 0.92 Et or 0.92 UEF.b.Electric water heating equipment shall have a minimum rated efficiency of 2.4 UEF or 2.0 COP.Multiple units of water heating equipment of the same type, fuel-burning or electric, shall be allowed to meet this requirement based on an input-capacity-weighted average of rated efficiency.Exceptions:1. Buildings provided with any combination of on-site renewable energy systems or waste heat recovery systems capable of providing not less than 25% of the total water heating load, not including on- site renewable energy system capacity used for compliance with any other section of this code.2. Water heaters installed in individual dwelling units.The PECC sets the efficiency of high-capacity service hot-water equipment at 0.90 Et. Section 701.4.4.2 raises the requirement for gas-fired equipment and eliminates the exception for small water heaters or water heaters in dwelling units, expanding the application to multifamily and hotel projects with individual water heaters. For projects that exceed the wholebuilding threshold, regardless of whether it is using gas or electric equipment and regardless of whether it is using central or distributed equipment, the equipment will need to meet a higher efficiency requirement. However, it retains the 300 kW threshold used in Standard 90.1 for consistency.The requirement for gas-fired high-capacity water heating equipment in Section 7.5.3 of Standard 90.1 exceeds the minimums from Standard 90.1, Table 7.8 by 12.5%. The GBCP-2023 requirement increases that performance premium to 15% (i.e., 92% Et). This improvement can be met without making major technology shifts, because achieving a 90% Et already generally requires condensing technology. The efficiency levels for other equipment types are consistent with the same 15% performance premium.Like the PECC, an exception is made for renewable energy but adds solar thermal and waste heat recovery. The exception in this new provision includes language that precludes double-counting renewable energy both for this exception and for the on-site renewable energy requirements of Section 701.4.1.1.
701.4.4.3 (7.4.4.3) [JO] Insulation for spa pools.Pools heated to more than 90°F (32°C) shall have side and bottom surfaces insulated on the exterior with a minimum insulation value of R-12 (R-2.1).Insulation is required for the sides and bottom surfaces of pools heated to more than 90°F (32°C). This requirement applies primarily to pools used as spas or for physical therapy. The side walls and bottom must be insulated on the exterior surface (the surface that is not in contact with the water) with R-2.1 minimum insulation.
701.4.5 (7.4.5) Power.The power shall comply with ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 8.All prescriptive requirements of the PECC apply.
701.4.6 (7.4.6) Lighting.The lighting shall comply with ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 9, with the following modifications and additions.The GBCP-2023 requires compliance with all interior and exterior lighting requirements of the PECC or ASHRAE 90.1. In addition, the GBCP-2023 requires lower LPDs [Section 701.4.6.1], additional occupant sensing controls [Section 701.4.6.2], egress lighting automatic control requirements [Section 701.4.6.3], and additional exterior sign lighting controls [Section 701.4.6.4].
701.4.6.1 (7.4.6.1) Lighting power allowance.
TABLE 701.4.6.1A (TABLE 7.4.6.1A)
LIGHTING POWER DENSITIES USING
THE BUILDING AREA METHOD
BUILDING AREA TYPEa LPD, W/ft2
LPD, W/m2
Automotive facility 0.64 6.9
Convention center 0.51 5.5
Courthouse 0.74 8.0
Dining: Bar lounge/leisure 0.69 7.4
Dining: Cafeteria/fast food 0.66 7.1
Dining: Family 0.61 6.6
Dormitory 0.52 5.6
Exercise center 0.61 6.6
Fire station 0.50 5.4
Gymnasium 0.67 7.2
Health care clinic 0.68 7.3
Hospital 0.86 9.3
Hotel/Motel 0.70 7.5
Library 0.72 7.8
Manufacturing facility 0.60 6.5
Motion picture theater 0.62 6.7
Multifamily 0.49 5.3
Museum 0.68 7.3
Office 0.69 7.4
Parking garage 0.12 1.3
Penitentiary 0.67 7.2
Performing arts theater 0.85 9.1
Police station 0.68 7.3
Post office 0.62 6.7
Religious facility 0.70 7.5
Retail 0.91 9.8
School/university 0.67 7.2
Sports arena 0.76 8.2
Town hall 0.72 7.8
Transportation 0.51 5.5
Warehouse 0.41 4.4
Workshop 0.83 8.9
a.In cases where both a general building area type and a specific building area type are listed, the specific building area type shall apply.
TABLE 701.4.6.1B (TABLE 7.4.6.1B) LIGHTING POWER DENSITY (LPD) ALLOWANCES AND ROOM CAVITY RATIO (RCR) THRESHOLDS USING THE SPACE-BY-SPACE METHOD
Informative Note: This table is divided into two sections. The first section covers space types that can be commonly found in multiple-building types. The second part covers space types that are typically found in a single-building type.
COMMON SPACE TYPES a LPD, W/ft2 LPD, W/m2 RCR THRESHOLD
Atrium
< 20 ft (6.1 m) in height 0.39 4.2 NA
≥ 20 ft (6.1m) and ≤ 40 ft (12.2 m) in height 0.48 5.2 NA
> 40 ft (12.2 m) in height 0.60 6.5 NA
Audience Seating Area
Auditorium 0.44 4.7 6
Convention center 0.23 2.5 4
Gymnasium 0.23 2.5 6
Motion picture theater 0.30 3.2 4
Penitentiary 0.44 4.7 4
COMMON SPACE TYPES a LPD, W/ft2 LPD, W/m2 RCR THRESHOLD
Performing arts theater 0.75 8.1 8
Religious building 0.65 7.0 4
Sports arena 0.30 3.2 4
All other audience seating areas 0.23 2.5 4
Banking Activity Area 0.55 6.0 6
Breakroom (See Lounge/Breakroom)
Classroom/Lecture Hall/Training Room
Penitentiary 0.81 8.7 4
All other classrooms/lecture halls/training rooms 0.65 6.9 4
Conference/Meeting/Multipurpose Room 0.88 9.5 6
Confinement Cells 0.52 5.6 6
Copy/Print Room 0.31 3.3 6
Corridor b
Facility for the visually impaired (and not used primarily by the staff) c 0.71 7.6 width < 8 ft (2.4 m)
Hospital 0.65 6.9 width < 8 ft (2.4 m)
Manufacturing facility 0.28 3.0 width < 8 ft (2.4 m)
All other corridors 0.37 4.0 width < 8 ft (2.4 m)
Courtroom 0.98 10.5 6
Computer Room 0.85 9.2 4
Dining Area
Penitentiary 0.42 4.5 6
Facility for the visually impaired (and not used primarily by staff) c 1.27 13.7 4
Bar/lounge or leisure dining 0.62 6.7 4
Cafeteria or fast food dining 0.36 3.9 4
Family dining 0.54 5.8 4
All other dining areas 0.39 4.2 4
Electrical/Mechanical Room g 0.39 4.2 6
Emergency Vehicle Garage 0.47 5.1 4
Food Preparation Area 0.92 9.9 6
Guest Room 0.41 4.4 6
Laboratory
In or as a classroom 1.04 11.2 6
All other laboratories 1.24 13.3 6
Laundry/Washing Area 0.43 4.6 4
Loading Dock, Interior 0.51 5.5 6
COMMON SPACE TYPES a LPD, W/ft2 LPD, W/m2 RCR THRESHOLD
Lobby
Facility for the visually impaired (and not used primarily by the staff) c 1.30 14.0 4
Elevator 0.52 5.6 6
Hotel 0.46 5.0 4
Motion picture theater 0.30 3.2 4
Performing arts theater 0.82 8.8 6
All other lobbies 0.76 8.2 4
Locker Room 0.45 4.8 6
Lounge/Breakroom
Health care facility 0.38 4.1 6
All other lounges/breakrooms 0.44 4.7 4
Office
Enclosed and ≤ 250 ft2 (23 m2) 0.67 7.2 8
Enclosed and > 250 ft2 (23 m2) 0.60 6.5 8
Open plan 0.55 6.0 4
Parking Area, Interior 0.11 1.2 4
Pharmacy Area 1.23 13.2 6
Restroom
Facility for the visually impaired (and not used primarily by the staff) c 0.81 8.7 8
All other restrooms 0.57 6.2 8
Sales Area d 0.95 10.3 6
Seating Area, General 0.23 2.5 4
Stairway The space containing the stairway shall determine the LPD requirements for the stairway.
Stairwell 0.45 4.8 10
Storage Room
< 50 ft2 (4.6m2) 0.51 5.5 6
≥ 50 ft2 (4.6m2) and ≤ 1000 ft2 (93 m2) 0.35 3.7 6
All other storage rooms 0.35 3.7 6
Vehicular Maintenance Area 0.53 5.7 4
Workshop 1.09 11.7 6
BUILDING TYPE SPECIFIC SPACE TYPES a LPD, W/ft2 LPD, W/m2 RCR THRESHOLD
Facility for the Visually Impaired c
Chapel (used primarily by residents) 0.70 7.5 4
Recreation room/common living room (and not used primarily by staff) 1.53 15.3 6
Automotive (See “Vehicular Maintenance Area”)
Convention Center—Exhibit Space 0.55 6.0 4
Dormitory—Living Quarters 0.46 4.95 8
BUILDING TYPE SPECIFIC SPACE TYPES a LPD, W/ft2 LPD, W/m2 RCR THRESHOLD
Fire Station—Sleeping Quarters 0.19 2.05 6
Gymnasium/Fitness Center
Exercise area 0.50 5.4 4
Playing area 0.75 8.1 4
Health Care Facility
Exam/treatment room 1.16 12.5 8
Imaging room 0.85 9.2 6
Medical supply room 0.54 5.8 6
Nursery 0.94 10.1 6
Nurse’s station 0.75 8.1 6
Operating room 1.87 20.1 6
Patient room 0.45 4.8 6
Physical therapy room 0.85 9.1 6
Recovery room 0.89 9.6 6
Library
Reading area 0.77 8.3 4
Stacks 1.08 11.6 4
Manufacturing Facility
Detailed manufacturing area 0.80 8.6 4
Equipment room 0.61 6.6 6
Extra high bay area (> 50 ft [15.2 m] floor-to-ceiling height) 0.73 7.9 4
High bay area (25 ft [7.6 m] to 50 ft [15.2 m] floor-to-ceiling height) 0.58 6.2 4
Low bay area (< 25 ft [7.6 m] floor-to-ceiling height) 0.61 6.6 4
Museum
General exhibition area 0.31 3.3 6
Restoration room 0.77 8.3 6
Performing Arts Theater—Dressing Room 0.35 3.8 6
Post Office—Sorting Area 0.66 7.1 4
Religious Buildings
Fellowship hall 0.42 4.5 4
Worship/pulpit/choir area 0.77 8.3 4
Retail Facilities
Dressing/fitting room 0.49 5.3 8
Mall concourse 0.53 5.7 4
Sports Arena—Playing Area h
Class I facility 2.26 24.3 4
Class II facility 1.45 15.6 4
BUILDING TYPE SPECIFIC SPACE TYPES a LPD, W/ft2 LPD, W/m2 RCR THRESHOLD
Class III facility 1.08 11.6 4
Class IV facility 0.72 7.8 4
Transportation Facility
Baggage/carousel area 0.35 3.8 4
Airport concourse 0.22 2.4 4
Terminal ticket counter 0.48 5.2 4
Warehouse—Storage Area
Medium-to-bulky, palletized items 0.27 2.9 4
Smaller, hand-carried items e 0.60 6.5 6
a.In cases where both a common space type and a building area specific space type are listed, the building area specific space type shall apply.b.In corridors, the extra LPD allowance is permitted when the width of the corridor is less than 8 ft (2.4 m) and is not based on the RCR, see Section 701.4.6.1.1(c) [7.4.6.1.1(c)].c.A “Facility for the visually impaired” is a facility that can be documented as being designed to comply with the light levels in ANSI/IES RP-28 and is licensed or will be licensed by local/state authorities for either senior long-term care, adult daycare, senior support, and/or people with special visual needs.d.For accent lighting, see Section 701.4.6.1.1(d) [7.4.6.1.1(d)].e.Sometimes referred to as a “picking area.”f.Not used to keep footnote numbering consistent with ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1.g.Electrical/mechanical rooms. An additional 0.50 W/ft2 (5.4 W/m2) shall be allowed, provided that the additional lighting is controlled separately from the base allowance of 0.39 W/ft2 (4.2 W/m2). The additional 0.50 W/ft2 (5.4 W/m2) allowance shall not be used for any other purpose.h.Class of play as defined by IES RP-6.
701.4.6.1.1 (7.4.6.1.1) Interior lighting power densities (LPDs).The interior lighting power allowance shall be determined using ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, either Section 9.5 or 9.6, with the following modifications:a.For those areas where the Building Area Method is used, the LPD from ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Table 9.5.1, shall be replaced with the corresponding LPD in Table 701.4.6.1A (7.4.6.1A).b.For those areas where the Space-by-Space Method is used, the LPD from ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Table 9.6.1, shall be replaced with the corresponding LPD in Table 701.4.6.1B (7.4.6.1B).c.Room geometry adjustment when using the Space-by-Space Method: ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 9.6.4, shall be replaced with the following. For corridor/transition spaces less than 8 ft (2.4 m) wide, or individual spaces where room cavity ratio (RCR) calculated for the empty room is documented to be greater than the RCR threshold for that space type shown in Table 7.4.6.1B, the allowed LPD shall be 1.2 times the LPD in Table 701.4.6.1B (7.4.6.1B). RCR shall be calculated as described in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 9.6.4.d.Additional lighting power when using the Space-by-Space Method: For those areas where the Space-by-Space Method is used, the additional increase in the interior lighting power allowed by ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 9.6.2, for specific lighting functions shall be replaced by the requirements and allowances of this section. Additional power shall be allowed only if the specified lighting is installed and automatically controlled separately from the general lighting and is designed and installed to be turned off during nonbusiness hours. This additional power shall be used only for the specified luminaires and shall not be used for any other purpose. An increase in the interior lighting power allowance is permitted in the following cases:1.For spaces in which lighting is specified to be installed in addition to the general lighting for the purpose of decorative appearance or for highlighting art or exhibits, provided that the additional lighting power shall not exceed 0.5W/ft2 (5.4 W/m2) of such spaces.2.For lighting equipment installed in sales areas and specifically designed and directed to highlight merchandise, calculate the additional lighting power as follows:Additional interior lighting power allowance =750 W + [Retail Area 1 × 0.40 W/ft2 (4.3 W/m2)]+ [Retail Area 2 × 0.40 W/ft2(4.3 W/m2)]+ [Retail Area 3 × 1.00 W/ft2(10.8 W/m2)]+ [Retail Area 4 × 1.50 W/ft2(16.1 W/m2)]where:Retail Area 1 = The floor area for all products not listed in Retail Areas 2, 3, or 4.Retail Area 2 = The floor area used for the sale of vehicles, sporting goods, and small electronics.Retail Area 3 = The floor area used for the sale of furniture, clothing, cosmetics, and artwork.Retail Area 4 = The floor area used for the sale of jewelry, crystal, and china.Exception: Other merchandise categories included in Retail Areas 2 through 4 where the documented need for additional lighting power based on visual inspection, contrast, or other critical display has been approved.e.Any of the control factors from ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Table 9.6.3, shall be permitted to be applied, provided that the corresponding control method is not required by ANSI/ASHRAE/ICC/ USGBC/IES Standard 189.1.f.An additional lighting power allowance shall be credited for institutional tuning of dimmable lighting systems that meet all of the following requirements:1.Institutional tuning controls shall be accessible only to authorized personnel.2.Construction documents shall state that maximum light output or power of controlled lighting shall be reduced by at least 15% from full output.3.The maximum light output or power of the controlled lighting shall be measured without institutional tuning and with institutional tuning to verify reduction of light output or power by at least 15% when tuned. In daylighted areas these measurements shall be conducted at night.For controlled lighting in daylighted areas, the additional lighting power allowance shall be 0.05 times the controlled lighting power. In nondaylighted areas, the additional lighting power allowance shall be 0.10 times the controlled lighting power.The building project may use either the Building Area Method, defined in the PECC and adjusted by Table 701.4.6.1A of the GBCP-2023, or the Space-by-Space Method, defined in the PECC and adjusted by Table 701.4.6.1B of the GBCP-2023, to calculate the allowable lighting power density (LPD). Note that a building project must use either the Building Area Method or the Space-by-Space Method. The two methods may not be mixed within the same building project.For the Building Area Method, the GBCP-2023 allowable LPD is achieved by multiplying the LPD from the PECC by the corresponding LPD factor from Table 701.4.6.1A. For the Space-by-Space Method, the GBCP-2023 allowable LPD is achieved by multiplying the LPD from the PECC by the corresponding LPD factor from Table 701.4.6.1B.The GBCP-2023 prescriptive lighting control methods are provided in this section. As such, control factors listed in the PECC may be used for control methods that are not required by the PECC or any prescriptive requirements of this section. However, the control factors may be used for all other control methods.When using the Space-by-Space Method, additional lighting is allowed for decorative lighting and retail display lighting, as described in the PECC. Under the requirements of the GBCP-2023, the maximum additional lighting power allowance for decorative lighting in each space is 5.4 W/m2 or less of the space. Additional lighting power for sales areas where the light is used to highlight merchandise is calculated as follows:Additional interior lighting power allowance = 750 W + [Retail Area 1 × 4.3 W/m2]+ [Retail Area 2 × 4.3 W/m2]+ [Retail Area 3 × 10.8 W/m2]+ [Retail Area 4 × 16.1 W/m2]where:Retail Area 1 = the floor area for all products not listed in Retail Areas 2, 3, or 4.Retail Area 2 = the floor area used for the sale of vehicles, sporting goods, and small electronics.Retail Area 3 = the floor area used for the sale of furniture, clothing, cosmetics, and artwork.Retail Area 4 = the floor area used for the sale of jewelry, crystal, and china.Additional lighting power allowance of 5% for daylighted areas and 10% for nondaylighted areas is credited for the provision of institutional tuning that meets specific criteria: the controls for institutional tuning can only be accessible to authorized personnel to prevent tampering with lighting and power levels, the construction documents must say that the controlled lighting reduces light output or power by 15% or more, and the light output or power must be compared with and without institutional tuning to ensure a reduction of 15% when tuned. Measurements must be conducted at night for areas that are daylighted.The additional lighting power is only allowed if the lighting specified by the code is installed, automatically controlled separately from the general lighting, and designed and installed to be turned off during nonbusiness hours. The additional allowance shall only be used for the specified luminaires and may not be used for any other purpose.Considerations for Designing Interior Lighting Compliant with the GBCP-2023 Installed Interior LightingAlthough the LPD requirements are lower, the intent of the GBCP-2023 is not to drop the illumination levels below those recommended by the Illuminating Engineering Society (IES). Rather, the GBCP-2023’s purpose is to encourage the use of proven lighting design principles to limit lighting power while achieving adequate levels of illumination.Selecting highly reflective walls and ceilings can improve illumination levels and assist in the even distribution of lighting through a room. Darker, nonreflective surfaces tend to absorb light, leading to dark spots near the edges of a room and increasing the illumination required from lighting fixtures. Lighter-colored surfaces or colored coatings with reflective properties (such as paint or stucco containing hydrated lime) will reflect lighting. Similarly, highly reflective ceiling tiles can be used to maintain high levels of illumination in a space while limiting fixture wattages, particularly when used in combination with indirect or direct/indirect lighting.
701.4.6.1.2 (7.4.6.1.2) Exterior LPDs.The exterior lighting power allowance shall be determined using ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 9.4.3, with the following modification. The LPDs from ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Table 9.4.2-2, shall be multiplied by the appropriate LPD factor from Table 701.4.6.1.2 (7.4.6.1.2).The PECC specifies the maximum allowable exterior lighting power for various exterior lighting applications. This is the basis for the exterior lighting power regulation of the GBCP-2023. The GBCP-2023 includes Table 701.4.6.1.2, which provides lighting power allowance factors for tradable and nontradable areas in each lighting zone (LZ). The methodology to establish the GBCP-2023 allowable exterior lighting power is similar to that for interior lighting. The lighting power allowance factor for the appropriate LZ from Table 701.4.6.1.2 must be multiplied by the allowable lighting power for the exterior lighting area type from the PECC. The application of the calculated lighting power allowances is the same as for the PECC. The allowable lighting power for tradable lighting areas may be reduced or eliminated in one area and increased in another. These tradable areas are not “use it or lose it." Conversely, there are nontradable areas that are “use it or lose it.” If the allowable lighting power for one of these types of areas is not used, the lighting power that would have been used is not available for use elsewhere.
TABLE 701.4.6.1.2 (TABLE 7.4.6.1.2)
LIGHTING POWER ALLOWANCE FACTORS
LIGHTING ZONE
LZ0 LZ1 LZ2 LZ3 LZ4
For tradable areas, uncovered parking areas: parking areas and drives with measured SRI < 29 or without SRI measurement Not allowed 1 0.75 0.83 0.63
For tradable areas, uncovered parking areas: parking areas and drives with new concrete without added color pigment or with measured SRI ≥ 29 Not allowed 1 1 1 1
For tradable areas, other 1.00 0.90 0.90 0.95 0.95
For nontradable areas 1.00 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95
701.4.6.2 (7.4.6.2) Dwelling units.This section supersedes ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 9.4.3. Not less than 90% of the permanently installed lighting serving dwelling units shall be provided by lamps with an efficacy of not less than 75 lm/W or luminaires with an efficacy of not less than 55 lm/W.Exception: Lighting attached to, or integral to, appliances.This section supersedes Standard 90.1, Section 9.4.3, and requires that at least 90% of the permanently installed lighting serving dwelling units be provided by lamps with an efficacy of not less than 75 lm/W or luminaires with an efficacy of not less than 55 lm/W. An exception is provided for lighting incorporated in appliances.The requirements of this section exceed the existing ENERGY STAR or equivalent standards currently referenced in the GBCP-2023 in all cases except for omnidirectional lamps with a color rendering index (CRI) under 90. These are lamps that are intended for utility or outdoor application where color rendering is not important and that are not appropriate to indoor residential applications covered in this section of the standard. The approach herein groups all lamps and luminaires under a common set of requirements to provide better clarity and alignment with Standard 90.1.
701.4.6.3 (7.4.6.3) Interior lighting controls.The interior lighting control requirements in this section are in addition to the control requirements in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 9.4.1.1.The interior lighting control requirements of Section 701.4.6.2 are in addition to the control requirements in the PECC.
701.4.6.3.1 (7.4.6.3.1) [JO] Occupancy sensor controls in commercial and industrial storage stacks.The lighting in commercial and industrial storage stack areas shall be controlled by an occupancy sensor with multilevel switching or dimming system that reduces lighting power a minimum of 50% within 20 minutes of all occupants leaving the stack area. Exception: Storage stack areas illuminated by high-intensity discharge (HID) lighting with an LPD of 0.8 W/ft2 (8.6 W/m2) or less.This section requires occupancy sensor controls with multilevel switching or dimming capabilities in commercial and industrial storage stack areas and matches PECC Section C405.2.1.2.These occupancy sensor controls must be capable of dimming or turning off at least 50% of the lighting power when the stack area has been unoccupied for not more than 20 minutes. There is no manual ON requirement for these spaces, however, which means that when an occupant is sensed, the lighting can automatically return to 100% power.Areas lit by high-intensity discharge lighting with an LPD less than or equal to 0.8 W/ft2 (8.6 W/m2) are not required to have occupant sensor controls. Because the GBCP-2023 allowable LPDs for commercial and industrial stacks are below this LPD threshold, many commercial and industrial stacks using high-intensity discharge (HID) lighting will meet the requirements for this exception.
701.4.6.3.2 (7.4.6.3.2) [JO] Automatic controls for egress and security lighting.Lighting in any area within a building that is required to be continuously illuminated for reasons of building security or emergency egress shall not exceed 0.1 W/ft2 (1 W/m2). Additional egress and security lighting shall be allowed, provided it is controlled by an automatic control device that turns off the additional lighting.Where a building project is required to have security or egress lighting continuously illuminated, the LPD of such lighting must be 0.1 W/ft2 (1 W/m2) or less. Where additional egress or security lighting is required, the additional lighting power must include controls that automatically turn off the lighting when the space is unoccupied.
701.4.6.3.3 (7.4.6.3.3) Occupancy sensing control in large office spaces.General lighting in office spaces greater than 250 ft2 (23 m2) shall be controlled by occupancy sensing controls that comply with all of the following:a.The occupancy sensing controls shall be configured so that general lighting shall be controlled separately in control zones with floor areas not greater than 600 ft2 (56 m2).b. Within 20 minutes of the control zone being unoccupied, the occupancy sensing controls shall turn off or uniformly reduce lighting power to no more than 20% of full power.c.Within 20 minutes of the entire office space being unoccupied, the occupancy sensing controls shall automatically turn off general lighting in all control zones in the space.d.General lighting in each control zone shall be allowed to automatically turn on to full power upon occupancy within the control zone. When occupancy is detected in any control zone in the space, the general lighting in other control zones that are unoccupied shall operate at no more than 20% of full power.Office spaces that are larger than 250 ft2 (23 m2) are required to have their general lighting controlled by occupancy sensing controls that meet the following requirements:a.They are configured so that general lighting can be controlled separately in control zones with areas of 600 ft2 (56 m2) or less.b.After the control zone is unoccupied, the controls must turn off or uniformly reduce lighting power to 20% of full power or less.c.Within 20 minutes of the entire office space being unoccupied, the controls must automatically turn off general lighting in all control zones in the space.d.General lighting in each control zone is allowed to automatically turn on to full power when the control zone is occupied. When occupancy is detected in any control zone in the space, the general lighting in other control zones that are unoccupied must operate at not more than 20% of full power.Note that office spaces must comply with all of these requirements.
701.4.6.4 (7.4.6.4)
Exterior lighting controls.This section supersedes ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 9.4.1.4, for all exterior sign lighting and lighting serving uncovered parking areas and open areas in outdoor sales lots.The PECC is superseded for all exterior sign lighting and lighting serving uncovered parking areas and open areas in outdoor sales lots.
701.4.6.4.1 (7.4.6.4.1)
Controls for exterior sign lighting.All exterior sign lighting, including internally illuminated signs and lighting on externally illuminated signs, shall comply with the requirements of Section 701.4.6.4.1.1 (7.4.6.4.1.1) or 701.4.6.4.1.2 (7.4.6.4.1.2).Exceptions:1.Sign lighting that is specifically required by a health or life safety statute, ordinance, or regulation.2.Signs in tunnels.Exterior sign lighting, regardless of whether it is internally or externally illuminated, is required to be controlled unless:It is sign lighting required by a health or life regulation; orIt is sign lighting in a tunnel. This exception is most often applied for commercial and industrial storage stack areas, since the lighting power density allowed in the GBCP-2023 using the Building Area Method for warehouses is 7 W/m2.
701.4.6.4.1.1 (7.4.6.4.1.1)
All sign lighting that operates more than one hour per day during daylight hours shall include controls to automatically reduce the input power to a maximum of 35% of full power for a period from one hour after sunset to one hour before sunrise.Exception: Sign lighting using neon lamps with controls to automatically reduce the input power to a maximum of 70% of full power for a period from one hour after sunset to one hour before sunrise.Sign lighting that operates more than 1 hour per day must include automatic controls to reduce the input power to not more than 35% of full power between 1 hour after sunset and 1 hour before sunrise. All other sign lighting is required to be controlled to reduce the input power to 35% of full power from midnight until either 6:00 a.m. or business opening, whichever is later. Such lighting must also have controls to automatically turn off the sign lighting during daylight hours.
701.4.6.4.1.2 (7.4.6.4.1.2)
All other sign lighting shall include the following:a. Controls to automatically reduce the input power to a maximum of 50% of full power for a period from midnight or within one hour of the end of business operations, whichever is later, until 6:00 am or business opening, whichever is earlier.b. Controls to automatically turn off during daylight hours.Section 701.4.6.4.1.2 requires exterior sign lighting controls similar to those required by the PECC. This section prohibits operating sign lighting during daylight hours. During a period from the latter of 1 hour after the close of business or midnight to the earlier of 6:00 a.m. or 1 hour before the start of business, the sign lighting power must be reduced to no more than 50% of the full lighting power. For the remainder of the time, the sign lighting may operate at full power.
701.4.6.4.2 (7.4.6.4.2)
Parking and outdoor sales lighting.Outdoor luminaires serving uncovered parking areas and open areas in outdoor sales lots shall be controlled by all of the following:a. Luminaires shall be controlled by a device that automatically turns off the luminaire during daylight hours.b. Luminaires shall be controlled by a timeclock or other control that automatically turns off the luminaire according to a timed schedule.c. For luminaires having a rated input wattage of more than 50 W and where the bottom of the luminaire is mounted 24 ft (7.3 m) or less above the ground, the luminaires shall be controlled by one or more devices that automatically reduce lighting power of each luminaire by a minimum of 50% when there is no activity detected in the controlled zone for a period no longer than 15 minutes. No more than 1500 input watts of lighting power shall be controlled together.Exceptions:1. Lighting serving street frontage for vehicle sales lots.2. Lighting for covered vehicle entrances or exits from buildings or parking structures where required for safety, security, or eye adaptation.Outdoor luminaires used for illuminating uncovered parking areas and open areas in outdoor sales lots are regulated by this section. These luminaires must include all of the following controls:The luminaires must include controls that automatically turn off the lights during daylight hours and when sufficient natural light is available.The luminaires must also be equipped with a timeclock that turns off the lighting based on a time schedule.Luminaires with the bottom of the luminaire mounted at 7.3 m above the ground or less (pole-mounted luminaires, for example) that have more than 50 W rated input power per luminaire must include controls to automatically turn down the lighting power in the LZ by not less than 50% when no activity has been detected in the LZ for a period of not more than 15 minutes. Each LZ must not include more than 1500 W of connected lighting power.Street frontage lighting used for the sale of vehicles is exempt from these requirements. Additionally, lighting used for covered vehicle entrances and exits (transitional areas) from buildings or garages is exempt. These transitional areas are intended for safety and eye adaptation to changing lighting levels.
701.4.6.5 (7.4.6.5)
Dwelling unit lighting controls.Permanently installed luminaires in laundry rooms, utility rooms, closets, and storage rooms in dwelling units shall be controlled with automatic shut-off controls.For all other spaces and exterior applications that are controlled from within a dwelling unit, where three or more permanently installed luminaires are controlled together, the control shall be either a dimmer or an automatic shut-off control.Dwelling units with greater than 5000 ft2 (460 m2) of conditioned floor area shall have a lighting control system that has the capability to turn off all permanently installed interior lighting from a control located at an exit door or have a lighting control system that has the capability to turn off all permanently installed interior lighting from remote locations.Exceptions:1. Spaces using less than 10 W of total lighting power.2.
Lighting designed for safety or security.3. Permanently installed night lighting that does not exceed 2 W per luminaire.This section requires that permanently installed luminaires in the laundry rooms, utility rooms, closets and storage rooms be controlled with automatic shutoff controls. For all other spaces in dwelling units, including exterior applications controlled from within the dwelling unit, and where three or more permanently installed luminaires are controlled together, the control must be either a dimmer or an automatic shutoff control.Dwelling units with greater than 5000 ft2 (460 m2) of conditioned floor area must have a lighting control system that can turn off all permanently installed interior lighting from a control located at an exit door or have a lighting control system that can turn off all permanently installed interior lighting from remote locations.Spaces using less than 10 W of total lighting power, lighting designed for safety or security, and permanently installed night lighting that does not exceed 2 W per luminaire are excepted from the requirements.
701.4.7 (7.4.7)
Other equipment.The other equipment shall comply with ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 10, with the following modifications and additions.The ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1 includes energy efficiency requirements for all equipment within the scope of the standard but not included in other sections. The equipment covered includes the following:•
Electric motors•
Service water pressure booster systems•
Elevators•
Escalators and moving walks•
Whole-building energy monitoringAll building projects using the GBCP-2023 must also comply with the requirements of the PECC and the modifications and additions in this section. In addition to the requirements specified in the PECC, the GBCP-2023 establishes new requirements for supermarket heat recovery [Section 701.4.7.2], requires ENERGY STAR/equivalent equipment or its equivalent for building systems and equipment where an ENERGY STAR or equivalent label is available [Section 701.4.7.3], adds NEMA energy efficiency requirements for residential programmable thermostats [Section 701.4.7.4], and adds requirements for refrigerated display cases [Section 701.4.7.5].
701.4.7.1 (7.4.7.1)
Equipment efficiency for the alternate renewables approach.All building projects complying with the Alternate Renewables Approach in Section 701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1) and Table 701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1) shall comply with the applicable equipment efficiency requirements in Normative Appendix B, the applicable requirements in Section 701.4.7.3.2 (7.4.7.3.2), and the pump efficiency requirements in Section 701.4.7.6 (7.4.7.6). GBCP-2023 Section 701.4.7.1, offers two compliance paths for including on-site renewable energy. The first compliance path, the Standard Renewables Approach, establishes the baseline minimum on-site renewable energy requirement. The second path, the Alternate Renewables Approach, requires less on-site renewable energy but increased energy efficiency.For design teams choosing to follow the Alternate Renewables Approach in Section 701.4.1.1, this section sets the minimum allowable energy efficiency for all equipment that is not already covered by Sections 701.4.1 through 701.4.6.Where the Standard Renewables Approach is used, the requirements of this section do not apply and the requirements of the PECC must be met.Where the Alternate Renewables Approach is used, the requirements of this section must be satisfied. However, as HVAC equipment is covered by Section 701.4.3 and the equipment types listed in Section 701.4.7.3 do not include any equipment listed in the PECC, all equipment for this section is regulated by either Section 701.4.3 or 701.4.7.3.
701.4.7.2 (7.4.7.2)
[JO] Supermarket heat recovery.Supermarkets with a floor area of 25,000 ft2 (2500 m2) or greater shall recover waste heat from the condenser heat rejection on permanently installed refrigeration equipment meeting one of the following criteria: a. Twenty-five percent (25%) of the refrigeration system full-load total heat rejection.b. Eighty percent (80%) of the space heat, service water heating, and dehumidification reheat.If a recovery system is used that is installed in the refrigeration system, the system shall not increase the saturated condensing temperature at design conditions by more than 5°F (3°C) and shall not impair other head pressure control/energy reduction strategies.This requirement establishes a refrigeration heat recovery requirement for supermarkets with floor areas exceeding 25,000 ft2 (2500 m2). In this kind of application, waste heat from display cases is used to generate hot water that can be used for service water heating and/or all space heating. The waste heat recovery system cannot increase the saturated condensing temperature at design conditions by more than 5°F (3°C) and cannot influence other head pressure control and/or energy reduction strategies. The reason for this is to prevent the increased power demand that would result if the condenser temperature increased and head pressure were increased over standard operation.
701.4.7.3 (7.4.7.3)
Energy performance equipment.All building projects and all building projects complying with the Alternate Renewables Approach in Section 701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1) and Table 701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1) shall also comply with the best international (or equivalent national) practices approved by AHJ. The GBCP-2023 requires best international (or equivalent national) practices approved by AHJ or equipment that has energy efficiency parameters consistent with the minimum efficiency thresholds required by the best international (or equivalent national) practices approved by AHJ or equivalent certification. This applies for all equipment installed as part of the scope of work of the building project prior to the issuance of the certificate of occupancy. It does not apply to tenant improvements made outside of the scope of work of the project or to equipment previously owned by the building owner or tenants that is relocated to the building project.As with HVAC efficiency, domestic water heaters, and equipment efficiency, the best international (or equivalent national) practices approved by AHJ equipment requirements are broken into two sections, depending on the on-site renewable energy path used. All projects must comply with the requirements of Section 701.4.7.3.1, but only projects using the Alternate Renewables Approach must comply with the requirements of Section 701.4.7.3.2.
701.4.7.3.1 (7.4.7.3.1)
Requirements for equipment not covered by appliance efficiency regulations (all building projects).Minimum energy performance requirement for the following equipment shall comply with the best international (or equivalent national) practices approved by AHJ.a. Appliances: 1. Room air cleaners: Requirements for Room Air Cleaners. 2. Water coolers: Requirements for Water Coolers. b. Heating and Cooling: 1. Programmable thermostats: Requirements for Programmable Thermostats. 2. Ventilating fans: Requirements for Residential Ventilating Fans. c. Electronics: 1. Cordless phones 2. Audio and video: Requirements for Audio and Video. 3. Televisions: Requirements for Televisions. 4. Set-top boxes: Requirements for Set-Top Boxes. d. Office Equipment: 1. Computers: Requirements for Computers. 2. Copiers: Requirements for Imaging Equipment. 3. Fax machines: Requirements for Imaging Equipment. 4. Laptops: Requirements for Computers. 5. Mailing machines: Requirements for Imaging Equipment. 6. Monitors: Requirements for Displays. 7. Multifunction devices (printer/fax/ scanner): Requirements for Imaging Equipment. 8. Printers: Requirements for Imaging Equipment. 9. Scanners: Requirements for Imaging Equipment. 10. Computer servers: Requirements for Computer Servers. e. Lighting: 1. Integral LED lamps not subject to Section 701.4.6.2 (7.4.6.2): Requirements for Integral LED Lamps. f. Commercial Food Service: 1. Commercial fryers: Requirements for Commercial Fryers. 2. Commercial hot food holding cabinets: Requirements for Hot Food Holding Cabinets. 3. Commercial steam cookers: Requirements for Commercial Steam Cookers [see also water efficiency requirements in Section 601.3.2.5 (6.3.2.5)]. 4. Commercial dishwashers: Requirements for Commercial Dishwashers. 5. Commercial griddles: Requirements for Commercial Griddles. 6. Commercial ovens: Requirements for Commercial Ovens [see also water efficiency requirements in Section 601.3.2.5 (6.3.2.5)]. Exception: Products with minimum efficiencies addressed in any other Federal Policy Act superseding these standards when complying with Section 701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1). This section uses the best international practices approved by AHJ or equivalent program to establish minimum energy efficiency requirements for products not currently regulated. To comply with this section, the product types listed in this section of the standard must be the best international practices approved by AHJ or equivalent certified or meet the equivalent energy performance thresholds of the applicable program.
701.4.7.3.2 (7.4.7.3.2)
Requirements for equipment covered by appliance efficiency regulations (alternate renewables approach).For all building projects complying with the Alternate Renewables Approach in Section 701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1) and Table 701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1), the following equipment shall comply with the best international (or equivalent national) practices approved by AHJ. For those products listed below that are also contained in Normative Appendix B, the installed equipment shall comply by meeting or exceeding both the requirements in this section and in Normative Appendix B.a. Appliances: 1. Clothes washers: Requirements for Clothes Washers [see also the water efficiency requirements in Section 601.3.2.2 (6.3.2.2)]. 2. Dehumidifiers: Requirements for Dehumidifiers. 3. Dishwashers: Requirements Product Specifications for Residential Dishwashers [see also the water efficiency requirements in Section 601.3.2.2 (6.3.2.2)]. 4. Refrigerators and freezers: Requirements for Refrigerators and Freezers. 5. Room air conditioners: Requirements and Criteria for Room Air Conditioners. b. Heating and Cooling: 1. Residential air-source heat pumps: Requirements for ASHPs and Central Air Conditioners [see also the energy efficiency requirements in Section 701.4.1 (7.4.1)]. 2. Residential boilers: Requirements for Boilers [see also the energy efficiency requirements in Section 701.4.1 (7.4.1)]. 3. Residential central air conditioners: Requirements for ASHPs and Central Air Conditioners [see also the energy efficiency requirements in Section 701.4.1 (7.4.1)]. 4. Residential ceiling fans: Requirements for Residential Ceiling Fans. 5. Dehumidifiers: Requirements for Dehumidifiers. 6. Residential warm air furnaces: Requirements for Furnaces. 7. Residential geothermal heat pumps: Requirements for Geothermal Heat Pumps. c. Water Heaters: Requirements for Residential Water Heaters. d. Lighting: 1. Lamps: Requirements for Lamps (Light Bulbs). 2. Luminaires: Requirements for Luminaires. 3. Residential light fixtures: Requirements for Residential Light Fixtures. e. Commercial Food Service: 1. Commercial refrigerators and freezers Requirements for Commercial Refrigerators and Freezers. 2. Commercial ice machines: Requirements for Commercial Ice Machines. f. Other Products: 1. Battery charging systems: Requirements for Products with Battery Charger Systems (BCSs). 2. External power adapters: Requirements for Single-Voltage AC-DC and AC-AC Power Supplies. 3. Vending machines: Requirements for Refrigerated Beverage Vending Machines. This section must be used by projects that choose to follow the Alternate Renewables Approach. Projects that will use equipment listed in this section and choose to follow the Standard Renewables Approach are not required to comply with this section but must select equipment that meets the minimum SASO energy efficiency thresholds.Projects that will use equipment listed in this section and are following the Alternate Renewables Approach must use ENERGY STAR or equivalent certified products or products that meet the equivalent performance thresholds to comply with this section. The use of products meeting the best international practices approved by AHJ or equivalent performance criteria helps minimize the effect of the reduced on-site renewable energy.
701.4.7.4 (7.4.7.4)
[JO] Programmable thermostats.Residential programmable thermostats shall meet the requirements of NEMA Standards Publication DC 3, Annex A, “Energy-Efficiency Requirements for Programmable Thermostats,” or the requirements of the ENERGY STAR program for connected thermostats. Residential thermostats must meet either the requirements of NEMA Standards Publication DC 3, Annex A, “Energy-Efficiency Requirements for Programmable Thermostats” or the requirements of the ENERGY STAR or equivalent program for connected thermostats.
701.4.7.5 (7.4.7.5)
[JO] Refrigerated display cases.All open refrigerated display cases shall be covered by using field-installed strips, curtains, or doors.Where open refrigerated display cases are used, the opening of the display case must be enclosed with either doors or rubber strips to reduce heat gain from the surrounding room. Although enclosing an open refrigerated display case may reduce energy consumption due to heat gain from the surrounding room, it may create other operational issues, such as frost accumulation on the doors, as field-fabricated doors would not be equipped with the appropriate controls to prevent frost. Specifying refrigerated display cases designed with doors will likely result in more efficient and reliable performance while serving the same function.
701.4.7.6 (7.4.7.6)
Elevator power conversion system.In new buildings, traction elevators with a rise of 75 ft (23 m) or more shall be provided with a power conversion system that includes all of the following:a.
A drive motor with a minimum Class IE2 efficiency rating, as defined by IEC EN 60034-30. b. A regenerative drive that recovers potential energy released during motion, converts it to electrical energy, and supplies it to the building electrical system. This section provides energy efficiency requirements for traction elevators. The requirements apply to elevators in any size building that have a rise height of 75 ft (23 m) or greater. Shorter elevators are excluded from the new requirements because the expected energy savings are less substantial. The first requirement sets a minimum standard for elevator drive motor efficiency. The second requirement is for regenerative drives to be installed on the elevator. A regenerative drive is designed to capture mechanical energy generated while the elevator is braking and convert it into electrical energy for use in the building. Both technologies are considered current best practices and are widely available.
701.4.7.7 (7.4.7.7)
Pump efficiency.All pumps in buildings complying with the Alternate Renewables Approach in Section 701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1) and Table 701.4.1.1 (7.4.1.1) that are subject to the requirements of ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 10.4.7, shall have a Pump Energy Index no greater than 0.97.
701.4.8 (7.4.8)
Energy cost budget.The Energy Cost Budget option in ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1, Section 11, shall not be used.
701.5 (7.5)
Performance option.This section is intentionally left blank.
701.5.1 (7.5.1)
Annual energy cost.This section is intentionally left blank.
701.5.1.1 (7.5.1.1)
Compliance with ANSI/ ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1 without renewables.This section is intentionally left blank.
701.5.2 (7.5.2)
Annual carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e).This section is intentionally left blank.
701.5.3 (7.5.3)
Zero energy performance index.This section is intentionally left blank.
701.5.4 (7.5.4)
[JO] Energy simulation aided design.This section is intentionally left blank.
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
•
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.