======================================================================
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
======================================================================

Preface - International Wildland-Urban Interface Code (IWUIC)
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2024
International Wildland-Urban Interface Code (IWUIC)
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2024 International Wildland-Urban Interface Code (IWUIC) 2024 International Swimming Pool and Spa Code (ISPSC) 2024 International Private Sewage Disposal Code (IPSDC) 2024 International Code Council Performance Code (ICCPC) 2024 International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
I-Codes
/
2024 International Wildland-Urban Interface Code (IWUIC)
PREFACE
2024 International Wildland-Urban Interface Code (IWUIC)
favorite_border
Version:
Jun 2024
Contents
Notes
Insights
Overview
Copyright
PREFACE
FORMATTING CHANGES TO THE 2024 INTERNATIONAL CODES
ABOUT THE I-CODES
INTRODUCTION TO THE INTERNATIONAL URBAN WILDLAND INTERFACE CODE
ARRANGEMENT AND FORMAT OF THE 2024 IWUIC
RELOCATION OF TEXT OR TABLES
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Chapter 2 Definitions
Chapter 3 Wildland-Urban Interface Areas
Chapter 4 Wildland-Urban Interface Area Requirements
Chapter 5 Special Building Construction Regulations
Chapter 6 Fire Protection Requirements
Chapter 7 Referenced Standards
Appendix A General Requirements
Appendix B Vegetation Management Plan
Appendix C Fire Hazard Severity Form
Appendix D Fire Danger Rating System
Appendix E Findings of Fact
Appendix F Characteristics of Fire-Resistive Vegetation
Appendix G Self-Defense Mechanism
Appendix H International Wildland-Urban Interface Code Flowchart
Appendix I Board of Appeals
Index
Content Updates—Version 2
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
PREFACE
FORMATTING CHANGES TO THE 2024 INTERNATIONAL CODES The 2024 International Codes®(I-Codes®) have undergone substantial formatting changes as part of the digital transformation strategy of the International Code Council®(ICC®) to improve the user experience. The resulting product better aligns the print and PDF versions of the I-Codes with the ICC’s Digital Code content. Additional information can be found at iccsafe.org/design-updates.
Replacement of Marginal Markings with QR Codes
Through 2021, print editions of the I-Codes identified technical changes from prior code cycles with marginal markings [solid vertical lines for new text, deletion arrows (), asterisks for relocations (*)]. The 2024 I-Code print editions replace the marginal markings with QR codes to identify code changes more precisely.A QR code is placed at the beginning of any section that has undergone technical revision. If there is no QR code, there are no technical changes to that section.In the following example from the 2024 International Wildland-Urban Interface Code®(IWUIC®), a QR code indicates there are changes to Section 101 from the 2021 IWUIC. Note that the change may occur in the main section or in one or more subsections of the main section. To see the code changes, the user need only scan the QR code with a smart device. If scanning a QR code is not an option, changes can be accessed by entering the 7-digit code beneath the QR code at the end of the following URL: qr.iccsafe.org/ (in the above example, “qr.iccsafe.org/12f7d7a”). Those viewing the code book via PDF can click on the QR code.All methods take the user to the appropriate section on ICC’s Digital Codes website, where technical changes from the prior cycle can be viewed. Digital Codes Premium subscribers who are logged in will be automatically directed to the Premium view. All other users will be directed to the Digital Codes Basic free view. Both views show new code language in blue text along with deletion arrows for deleted text and relocation markers for relocated text.Digital Codes Premium offers additional ways to enhance code compliance research, including revision histories, commentary by code experts and an advanced search function. A full list of features can be found at codes.iccsafe.org/premium-features.
ABOUT THE I-CODES The 2024 I-Codes, published by the ICC, are 15 fully compatible titles intended to establish provisions that adequately protect public health, safety and welfare; that do not unnecessarily increase construction costs; that do not restrict the use of new materials, products or methods of construction; and that do not give preferential treatment to particular types or classes of materials, products or methods of construction.The I-Codes are updated on a 3-year cycle to allow for new construction methods and technologies to be incorporated into the codes. Alternative materials, designs and methods not specifically addressed in the I-Code can be approved by the building official where the proposed materials, designs or methods comply with the intent of the provisions of the code.The I-Codes are used as the basis of laws and regulations in communities across the US and in other countries. They are also used in a variety of nonregulatory settings, including: Voluntary compliance programs. The insurance industry. Certification and credentialing for building design, construction and safety professionals. Certification of building and construction-related products. Facilities management. “Best practices” benchmarks for designers and builders. College, university and professional school textbooks and curricula. Reference works related to building design and construction.
Code Development Process
The code development process regularly provides an international forum for building professionals to discuss requirements for building design, construction methods, safety, performance, technological advances and new products. Proposed changes to the I-Codes, submitted by code enforcement officials, industry representatives, design professionals and other interested parties are deliberated through an open code development process in which all interested and affected parties may participate.Openness, transparency, balance, due process and consensus are the guiding principles of both the ICC Code Development Process and OMB Circular A-119, which governs the federal government’s use of private-sector standards. The ICC process is open to anyone without cost. Remote participation is available through cdpAccess®, the ICC’s cloud-based app.In order to ensure that organizations with a direct and material interest in the codes have a voice in the process, the ICC has developed partnerships with key industry segments that support the ICC’s important public safety mission. Some code development committee members were nominated by the following industry partners and approved by the ICC Board: American Gas Association (AGA) American Institute of Architects (AIA) American Society of Plumbing Engineers (ASPE) International Association of Fire Chiefs (IAFC) National Association of Home Builders (NAHB) National Association of State Fire Marshals (NASFM) National Council of Structural Engineers Association (NCSEA) National Multifamily Housing Council (NMHC) Plumbing Heating and Cooling Contractors (PHCC) Pool and Hot Tub Alliance (PHTA), formerly The Association of Pool and Spa Professionals (APSP) Code development committees evaluate and make recommendations regarding proposed changes to the codes. Their recommendations are then subject to public comment and council-wide votes. The ICC’s governmental members—public safety officials who have no financial or business interest in the outcome—cast the final votes on proposed changes.The I-Codes are subject to change through future code development cycles and by any governmental entity that enacts the code into law. For more information regarding the code development process, contact the Codes and Standards Development Department of the ICC at iccsafe.org/products-and-services/i-codes/code-development/.While the I-Code development procedure is thorough and comprehensive, the ICC, its members and those participating in the development of the codes expressly disclaim any liability resulting from the publication or use of the I-Codes, or from compliance or noncompliance with their provisions. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, IMPLIED, EXPRESSED OR STATUTORY, IS GIVEN WITH RESPECT TO THE I-CODES. The ICC does not have the power or authority to police or enforce compliance with the contents of the I-Codes.
Code Development Committee Responsibilities (Letter Designations in Front of Section Numbers)
In each cycle, proposed changes are considered by the Code Development Committee assigned to a specific code or subject matter. Committee Action Hearings result in recommendations regarding a proposal to the voting membership. Where changes to a code section are not considered by that code’s own committee, the code section is preceded by a bracketed letter designation identifying a different committee. Bracketed letter designations for the I-Code committees are: [A] = Administrative Code Development Committee [BE] = IBC—Egress Code Development Committee [BF] = IBC—Fire Safety Code Development Committee [BG] = IBC—General Code Development Committee [BS] = IBC—Structural Code Development Committee [E] = Developed under the ICC’s Standard Development Process [EB] = International Existing Building Code Development Committee [F] = International Fire Code Development Committee [FG] = International Fuel Gas Code Development Committee [M] = International Mechanical Code Development Committee [P] = International Plumbing Code Development Committee [SP] = International Swimming Pool and Spa Code Development Committee For the development of the 2027 edition of the I-Codes, the ICC Board of Directors approved a standing motion from the Board Committee on the Long-Term Code Development Process to revise the code development cycle to incorporate two committee action hearings for each code group. This change expands the current process from two independent 1-year cycles to a single continuous 3- year cycle. There will be two groups of code development committees and they will meet in separate years. The current groups will be reworked. With the energy provisions of the International Energy Conservation Code®(IECC®) and Chapter 11 of the International Residential Code®(IRC®) now moved to the Code Council’s Standards Development Process, the reduced volume of code changes will be distributed between Groups A and B.Code change proposals submitted for code sections that have a letter designation in front of them will be heard by the respective committee responsible for such code sections. Because different committees hold Committee Action Hearings in different years, proposals for most codes will be heard by committees in both the 2024 (Group A) and the 2025 (Group B) code development cycles. It is very important that anyone submitting code change proposals understands which code development committee is responsible for the section of the code that is the subject of the code change proposal.Please visit the ICC website at iccsafe.org/products-and-services/i-codes/code-development/current-code-development-cycle for further information on the Code Development Committee responsibilities as it becomes available.
Coordination of the I-Codes
The coordination of technical provisions allows the I-Codes to be used as a complete set of complementary documents. Individual codes can also be used in subsets or as stand-alone documents. Some technical provisions that are relevant to more than one subject area are duplicated in multiple model codes.
Italicized Terms
Words and terms defined in Chapter 2, Definitions, are italicized where they appear in code text and the Chapter 2 definitions apply. Although care has been taken to ensure applicable terms are italicized, there may be instances where a defined term has not been italicized or where a term is italicized but the definition found in Chapter 2 is not applicable. For example, Chapter 2 of the International Building Code®(IBC®) contains a definition for “Listed” that is applicable to equipment, products and services. The term “listed” is also used in that code to refer to a list of items within the code or within a referenced document. For the latter, the Chapter 2 definition would not be applicable.​
Adoption of International Code Council Codes and Standards
The International Code Council maintains a copyright in all of its codes and standards. Maintaining copyright allows the Code Council to fund its mission through sales of books in both print and digital formats. The Code Council welcomes incorporation by reference of its codes and standards by jurisdictions that recognize and acknowledge the Code Council’s copyright in the codes and standards, and further acknowledge the substantial shared value of the public/private partnership for code development between jurisdictions and the Code Council. By making its codes and standards available for incorporation by reference, the Code Council does not waive its copyright in its codes and standards.The Code Council’s codes and standards may only be adopted by incorporation by reference in an ordinance passed by the governing body of the jurisdiction. “Incorporation by reference” means that in the adopting ordinance, the governing body cites only the title, edition, relevant sections or subsections (where applicable), and publishing information of the model code or standard, and the actual text of the model code or standard is not included in the ordinance (see graphic, “Adoption of International Code Council Codes and Standards”). The Code Council does not consent to the reproduction of the text of its codes or standards in any ordinance. If the governing body enacts any changes, only the text of those changes or amendments may be included in the ordinance. The Code Council also recognizes the need for jurisdictions to make laws accessible to the public. Accordingly, all I-Codes and I-Standards, along with the laws of many jurisdictions, are available to view for free at codes.iccsafe.org/codes/i-codes. These documents may also be purchased, in both digital and print versions, at shop.iccsafe.org.To facilitate adoption, some I-Code sections contain blanks for fill-in information that needs to be supplied by the adopting jurisdiction as part of the adoption legislation. For example, the IWUIC contains:Section 101.1. Insert: [NAME OF JURISDICTION]Section 103.1. Insert: [NAME OF DEPARTMENT]Section 109.3.7. Insert: [OFFENSE, DOLLAR AMOUNT, NUMBER OF DAYS]For further information or assistance with adoption, including a sample ordinance, jurisdictions should contact the Code Council at incorporation@iccsafe.org.For a list of frequently asked questions (FAQs) addressing a range of foundational topics about the adoption of model codes by jurisdictions and to learn more about the Code Council’s code adoption resources, scan the QR code or visit
iccsafe.org/code-adoption-resources.
INTRODUCTION TO THE INTERNATIONAL URBAN WILDLAND INTERFACE CODE The IWUIC establishes minimum requirements for land use and the built environment in designated wildland-urban interface areas using prescriptive and performance-related provisions. It is founded on data collected from tests and fire incidents, technical reports and mitigation strategies from around the world.Population growth and the expanding urban development into traditionally nonurban areas have increasingly brought humans into contact with wildfires. According to the National Fire Protection Agency (NFPA), every year, wildfires burn across the United States and a growing number of people are living where wildfires are a real risk. In 2018 more than 58,000 fires burned nearly 9 million acres across the US. More than 25,000 structures were destroyed, including 18,137 residences and 229 commercial structures. California accounted for the highest number of structures lost in one state due to the number of significant fires, including the Mendocino Complex, Carr, Camp and Woolsey fires.The IWUIC is a model code that is intended to be adopted and used supplemental to the adopted building and fire codes of a jurisdiction. The unrestricted use of property in wildland-urban interface areas is a potential threat to life and property from fire and resulting erosion. The IWUIC has as its objective the establishment of minimum special regulations for the safeguarding of life and property from the intrusion of fire from wildland fire exposures and fire exposures from adjacent structures and to prevent structure fires from spreading to wildland fuels, even in the absence of fire department intervention.Safeguards to prevent the occurrence of fires and to provide adequate fire protection facilities to control the spread of fire in wildland-urban interface areas are provided in a tiered manner commensurate with the relative level of hazard present.
ARRANGEMENT AND FORMAT OF THE 2024 IWUIC The format of the IWUIC allows each chapter to be devoted to a particular subject. The following table shows how the IWUIC is divided. The subsequent table shows IWUIC requirements that are correlated with other I-Codes. The chapter synopses detail the scope and intent of the provisions of the IWUIC.
CHAPTER TOPICS
CHAPTER
SUBJECT
1-2 Administration and Definitions
3-4 Wildland-Urban Interface Area Designation and Requirements
5
Building Construction Regulations
6
Fire Protection Requirements
7
Referenced Standards
Appendices A-I Adoptable and Informational Appendices
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration.
Chapter 1 establishes the limits of applicability of the code and describes how the code is to be applied and enforced. The provisions of Chapter 1 establish the authority and duties of the code official appointed by the authority having jurisdiction and also establish the rights and privileges of the design professional, contractor and property owner.
Chapter 2 Definitions.
Chapter 2 is the repository of the definitions of terms used in the body of the code. The user of the code should be familiar with and consult this chapter because the definitions are essential to the correct interpretation of the code and because the user may not be aware that a term is defined.
Chapter 3 Wildland-Urban Interface Areas.
Chapter 3 provides for the fundamental aspect of applying the code—the legal declaration and establishment of wildland-urban interface areas within the adopting jurisdiction by the local legislative body. The provisions cover area analysis and declaration based on findings of fact (located in Appendix E), mapping of the area, legal recordation of the maps with the local keeper of records and the periodic review and reevaluation of the declared areas on a regular basis.
Chapter 4 Wildland-Urban Interface Area Requirements.
The requirements of Chapter 4 apply to all occupancies in the wildland-urban interface and pertain to all of the following:1.Fire service access to the property that is to be protected, including fire apparatus access roads and off-road driveways.2.Premises identification.3.Key boxes to provide ready access to properties secured by gated roadways or other impediments to rapid fire service access.4.Fire protection water supplies, including adequate water sources, pumper apparatus drafting sites, fire hydrant systems and system reliability.5.Fire department access to equipment such as fire suppression equipment and fire hydrants.6.Fire protection plans.
Chapter 5 Special Building Construction Regulations.
The regulations in Chapter 5 establish minimum standards for the location, design and construction of buildings and structures based on fire hazard severity in the wildland-urban interface.The construction provisions of Chapter 5 are intended to supplement the requirements of the International Building Code and address mitigation of the unique hazards posed to buildings by wildfire and to reduce the hazards of building fires spreading to wildland fuels. This is accomplished by requiring ignition-resistant construction materials based on the hazard severity of the building site.
Chapter 6 Fire Protection Requirements.
Chapter 6 establishes minimum fire protection requirements to mitigate the hazards to life and property from fire in the wildland-urban interface. The chapter includes both design-oriented and prescriptive mitigation strategies to reduce the hazards of fire originating within a structure spreading to wildland and fire originating in wildland spreading to structures.
Chapter 7 Referenced Standards.
Chapter 7 lists all of the product and installation standards and codes that are referenced throughout Chapters 1 through 6 and includes identification of the promulgators and the section numbers in which the standards and codes are referenced. As stated in Section 102.4, these standards and codes become an enforceable part of the code (to the prescribed extent of the reference) as if printed in the body of the code.
Appendix A General Requirements.
Appendix A while not part of the code, can become part of the code when specifically included in the adopting ordinance. Its purpose is to provide fire-protection measures supplemental to those found in Chapter 6 to reduce the threat of wildfire in a wildland-urban interface area and improve the capability for controlling such fires. This appendix includes detailed requirements for vegetation control; the code official’s authority to close wildland-interface areas in times of high fire danger; control of fires, fireworks usage and other sources of ignition; storage of hazardous materials and combustibles; bans on the dumping of waste materials and ashes and coals in wildland-urban interface areas; protection of pumps and water supplies; and limits on temporary uses within the wildland-urban interface area.
Appendix B Vegetation Management Plan.
Appendix B, while not part of the code, can become part of the code when specifically included in the adopting ordinance. Its purpose is to provide criteria for submitting vegetation management plans, specifying their content and establishing a criterion for considering vegetation management as being a fuel modification.
Appendix C Fire Hazard Severity Form.
Appendix C, while not part of the code, can become part of the code (replacing Table 502.1) when specifically included in the adopting ordinance. Its purpose is to provide an alternative methodology to using Table 502.1 for analyzing the fire hazard severity of building sites using a preassigned value/scoring system for each feature that impacts the hazard level of a building site. Included in the evaluation are site access, types and management of vegetation, percentage of defensible space on the site, site topography, class of roofing and other construction materials used on the building (existing or to be constructed on the site), fire protection water supply, and whether utilities are installed above or below ground.
Appendix D Fire Danger Rating System.
Appendix D is an excerpt from the National Fire Danger Rating System (NFDRS), 1978, United States Department of Agriculture Forest Service, General Technical Report INT-39, and is for information purposes and is not intended for adoption. The fuel models that are included are only general descriptions because they represent all wildfire fuels from Florida to Alaska and from the East Coast to California.NFDRS is a set of computer programs and algorithms that allow land management agencies to estimate today’s or tomorrow’s fire danger for a given rating area. The NFDRS characterizes fire danger by evaluating the approximate upper limit of fire behavior in a fire danger rating area during a 24-hour period based on fuels, topography and weather, or what is commonly called the fire triangle. Fire danger ratings are guides for initiating presuppression activities and selecting the appropriate level of initial response to a reported wildfire in lieu of detailed, site- and time-specific information.Predicting the potential behavior and effects of wildland fire are essential tasks in fire management. Surface fire behavior and fire effects models and prediction systems are driven in part by fuelbed inputs such as load, bulk density, fuel particle size, heat content and moisture content. To facilitate use in models and systems, fuelbed inputs have been formulated into fuel models. A fuel model is a set of fuelbed inputs needed by a particular fire behavior or fire effects model. Different kinds of fuel models are used in fire spread models in a variety of fire behavior modeling systems. The fuel models in this appendix correlate with the light, medium and heavy fuel definitions found in Chapter 2.
Appendix E Findings of Fact.
Appendix E is an informational appendix that intends to provide a methodology for presenting the findings of fact that are required by Chapter 3 when a jurisdiction defines and establishes a wildland-urban interface area that will be the subject of regulation by the IWUIC. The development of a written “findings of fact” that justifies designation of wildland-interface areas by local jurisdictions requires that a certain amount of research and analysis be conducted to support a written finding that is both credible and professional. In the context of adopting a supplemental document such as the wildland-urban interface declaration, the writing of these findings is essential in creating the maps and overlap needed to use their specific options.The purpose of this appendix is to provide an overview of how local officials could approach this process. There are three essential phenomena cited in some adoption statutes that vary from community to community: climate, topography and geography. Although it could be argued that other factors should be prioritized in statutes specific to any given locality, these three features are also consistent with standard code text that offers the opportunity to be more restrictive than local codes. The process demands a high level of professionalism to protect the jurisdiction’s credibility in adopting more restrictive requirements. A superficial effort in preparing the findings of fact could jeopardize the proposed or adopted code restriction. Jurisdictions should devote a sufficient amount of time to draft the findings of fact to ensure that the facts are accurate, comprehensive and verifiable.
Appendix F Characteristics of Fire-Resistive Vegetation.
Appendix F is an informational appendix provided for the convenience of the code user. It is simply a compilation of the eight characteristics of fire-resistive vegetation that can be used effectively within wildland-urban interface areas to reduce the likelihood of fire spread through vegetation.
Appendix G Self-Defense Mechanism.
Appendix G is an informational appendix that provides discussion of some elements of the proposed self-defense mechanisms and their role in enhancing the protection of exposed structures in the wildland-urban interface. To accept alternative self-defense mechanisms, the code official must carefully examine whether these devices will be in place at the time of an event and whether they will assist or actually complicate the defense of the structure by fire suppression forces if they are available.
Appendix H International Wildland-Urban Interface Code Flowchart.
Appendix H is an informational appendix that is based on the “Decision Tree” concept and is intended to provide the code official with a graphical representation of how the IWUIC is to be applied in an orderly manner.
Appendix I Board of Appeals.
Appendix I contains the provisions for appeal and the establishment of a board of appeals. The provisions include the application for an appeal, the makeup of the board of appeals and the conduct of the appeal process.
RELOCATION OF TEXT OR TABLES The following table indicates relocation of sections and tables in the 2024 edition of the IWUIC from the 2021 edition:
RELOCATIONS TABLE
2024 LOCATION
2021 LOCATION
102.5
104.4
102.6
104.5
102.7
102.5
102.8
102.6
104.2.1
105.2
104.2.2
105.3
104.2.3
105.1
104.3
104.6
104.4
110.3
104.8
104.3
104.10
104.7
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
I-Codes • 2024
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.