======================================================================
Chapter 2 Definitions
======================================================================

Chapter 1 Scope And Administration - International Wildland-Urban Interface Code (IWUIC)
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2024
International Wildland-Urban Interface Code (IWUIC)
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2024 International Wildland-Urban Interface Code (IWUIC) 2024 International Swimming Pool and Spa Code (ISPSC) 2024 International Private Sewage Disposal Code (IPSDC) 2024 International Code Council Performance Code (ICCPC) 2024 International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
I-Codes
/
2024 International Wildland-Urban Interface Code (IWUIC)
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
2024 International Wildland-Urban Interface Code (IWUIC)
favorite_border
Version:
Jun 2024
Contents
Notes
Insights
Overview
Copyright
PREFACE
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Part 1—General Provisions Section 101 Scope and General Requirements
Section 102 Applicability
Part 2—Administration and Enforcement Section 103 Code Compliance Agency
Section 104 Duties and Powers of the Code Official
Section 105 Permits
Section 106 Construction Documents
Section 107 Temporary Uses, Equipment and Systems
Section 108 Fees
Section 109 Inspection and Enforcement
Section 110 Certificate of Completion
Section 111 Service Utilities
Section 112 Means of Appeals
Section 113 Stop Work Order
Chapter 2 Definitions
Chapter 3 Wildland-Urban Interface Areas
Chapter 4 Wildland-Urban Interface Area Requirements
Chapter 5 Special Building Construction Regulations
Chapter 6 Fire Protection Requirements
Chapter 7 Referenced Standards
Appendix A General Requirements
Appendix B Vegetation Management Plan
Appendix C Fire Hazard Severity Form
Appendix D Fire Danger Rating System
Appendix E Findings of Fact
Appendix F Characteristics of Fire-Resistive Vegetation
Appendix G Self-Defense Mechanism
Appendix H International Wildland-Urban Interface Code Flowchart
Appendix I Board of Appeals
Index
Content Updates—Version 2
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
User notes:
About this chapter: Chapter 1 establishes the limits of applicability of the code and describes how the code is to be applied and enforced. Chapter 1 is in two parts: Part 1–General Provisions (Sections 101–102) and Part 2—Administration and Enforcement (Sections 103–113). Section 101 identifies which buildings and structures come under its purview and references other International Codes as applicable. This code is intended to be adopted as a legally enforceable document and it cannot be effective without adequate provisions for its administration and enforcement. The provisions of Chapter 1 establish the authority and duties of the code official appointed by the authority having jurisdiction and also establish the rights and privileges of the design professional, contractor and property owner. Section 105 was revised and relocated to Section 104 for the 2024 edition. For complete information, see the Relocations table in the Preface of this code.
QR code use: A QR code is placed at the beginning of any section that has undergone technical revision. To see those revisions, scan the QR code with a smart device or enter the 7-digit code beneath the QR code at the end of the following URL: qr.iccsafe.org/ (see Formatting Changes to the 2024 International Codes for more information).
Part 1—General ProvisionsSection 101 Scope and general requirements
[A] 101.1 Title.
These regulations shall be known as the Wildland-Urban Interface Code of [NAME OF JURISDICTION], hereinafter referred to as “this code.”
[A] 101.2 Scope.
The provisions of this code shall apply to the construction, alteration, movement, repair, maintenance and use of any building, structure or premises within the wildland-urban interface areas in this jurisdiction.Buildings or conditions in existence at the time of the adoption of this code are allowed to have their use or occupancy continued, if such condition, use or occupancy was legal at the time of the adoption of this code, provided that such continued use does not constitute a distinct danger to life or property.Buildings or structures moved into or within the jurisdiction shall comply with the provisions of this code for new buildings or structures.
[A] 101.2.1 Appendices.
Provisions in the appendices shall not apply unless specifically adopted.
[A] 101.3 Purpose.
INSIGHTS
The purpose of this code is to establish minimum regulations for the safeguarding of life and for property protection. Regulations in this code are intended to mitigate the risk to life and structures from intrusion of fire from wildland fire exposures and fire exposures from adjacent structures and to mitigate structure fires from spreading to wildland fuels. The extent of this regulation is intended to be tiered commensurate with the relative level of hazard present.The unrestricted use of property in wildland-urban interface areas is a potential threat to life and property from fire and resulting erosion. Safeguards to prevent the occurrence of fires and to provide adequate fire protection facilities to control the spread of fire in wildland-urban interface areas shall be in accordance with this code.This code shall supplement the jurisdiction’s building and fire codes, if such codes have been adopted, to provide for special regulations to mitigate the fire- and life-safety hazards of the wildland-urban interface areas. INSIGHTS (1)
[A] 101.4 Retroactivity.
The provisions of the code shall apply to conditions arising after the adoption thereof, conditions not legally in existence at the adoption of this code and conditions that, in the opinion of the code official, constitute a distinct hazard to life or property.Exception: Provisions of this code that specifically apply to existing conditions are retroactive.
[A] 101.5 Additions or alterations.
Additions or alterations shall be permitted to be made to any building or structure without requiring the existing building or structure to comply with all of the requirements of this code, provided that the addition or alteration conforms to that required for a new building or structure.Exception: Provisions of this code that specifically apply to existing conditions are retroactive. Additions or alterations shall not be made to an existing building or structure that will cause the existing building or structure to be in violation of any of the provisions of this code nor shall such additions or alterations cause the existing building or structure to become unsafe. An unsafe condition shall be deemed to have been created if an addition or alteration will cause the existing building or structure to become structurally unsafe or overloaded; will not provide adequate access in compliance with the provisions of this code or will obstruct existing exits or access; will create a fire hazard; will reduce required fire resistance or will otherwise create conditions dangerous to human life.
[A] 101.6 Maintenance.
CDP
Buildings, structures, landscape materials, vegetation, defensible space or other devices or safeguards required by this code shall be maintained in conformance to the code edition under which installed. The owner or the owner’s authorized agent shall be responsible for the maintenance of buildings, structures, landscape materials and vegetation.
Section 102 Applicability
[A] 102.1 General.
Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall govern. Where, in any specific case, different sections of this code specify different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most restrictive shall govern.
[A] 102.2 Other laws.
CDP
The provisions of this code shall not be deemed to nullify any provisions of local, state or federal law.
[A] 102.3 Application of references.
References to chapter or section numbers, or to provisions not specifically identified by number, shall be construed to refer to such chapter, section or provision of this code.
[A] 102.4 Referenced codes and standards.
The codes and standards referenced in this code shall be those that are listed in Chapter 7 and such codes and standards shall be considered as part of the requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each such reference and as further regulated in Sections 102.4.1 and 102.4.2.
[A] 102.4.1 Conflicts.
Where conflicts occur between provisions of this code and the referenced standards, the provisions of this code shall govern.
[A] 102.4.2 Provisions in referenced codes and standards.
Where the extent of the reference to a referenced code or standard includes subject matter that is within the scope of this code, the provisions of this code, as applicable, shall take precedence over the provisions in the referenced standard.
[A]
102.5 Subjects not regulated by this code.
CDP
Where applicable standards or requirements are not set forth in this code, or are contained within other laws, codes, regulations, ordinances or policies adopted by the jurisdiction, compliance with applicable standards of other nationally recognized safety standards, as approved, shall be deemed as prima facie evidence of compliance with the intent of this code. Nothing herein shall derogate from the authority of the code official to determine compliance with codes or standards for those activities or installations within the code official’s jurisdiction or responsibility.
[A]
102.6 Matters not provided for.
Requirements that are essential for the public safety of an existing or proposed activity, building or structure, or for the safety of the occupants thereof, which are not specifically provided for by this code, shall be determined by the code official consistent with the necessity to establish the minimum requirements to safeguard the public health, safety and general welfare.
[A]
102.7 Partial invalidity.
CDP
In the event that any part or provision of this code is held to be illegal or void, this shall not have the effect of making void or illegal any of the other parts or provisions.
[A]
102.8 Existing conditions.
CDP
The legal occupancy or use of any structure or condition existing on the date of adoption of this code shall be permitted to continue without change, except as is specifically covered in this code, the International Fire Code or the International Property Maintenance Code, or as is deemed necessary by the code official for the general safety and welfare of the occupants and the public.
Part 2—Administration and EnforcementSection 103 Code compliance agency
[A] 103.1 Creation of agency.
The [INSERT NAME OF DEPARTMENT] is hereby created and the official in charge thereof shall be known as the code official. The function of the agency shall be the implementation, administration and enforcement of the provisions of this code.
[A] 103.2 Appointment.
The code official shall be appointed by the chief appointing authority of the jurisdiction.
[A] 103.3 Deputies.
In accordance with the prescribed procedures of this jurisdiction and with the concurrence of the appointing authority, the code official shall have the authority to appoint a deputy code official, other related technical officers, inspectors and other employees. Such employees shall have powers as delegated by the code official.
Section 104 Duties and powers of the code official
[A] 104.1 Powers and duties of the code official.
The code official is hereby authorized to enforce the provisions of this code.
[A] 104.2 Determination of compliance.
The code official shall have the authority to determine compliance with this code, to render interpretations of this code and to adopt policies and procedures in order to clarify the application of its provisions. Such interpretations, policies and procedures: 1. Shall be in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code.
2. Shall not have the effect of waiving requirements specifically provided for in this code.
[A] 104.2.1 Technical assistance.
To determine compliance with this code, the code official is authorized to require the owner, the owner’s authorized agent or the person in possession or control of the building or premises to provide a technical opinion and report.
[A] 104.2.1.1 Costs.
A technical opinion and report shall be provided without charge to the jurisdiction.
[A] 104.2.1.2 Preparer qualifications.
The technical opinion and report shall be prepared by a qualified engineer, specialist, laboratory or fire safety specialty organization acceptable to the code official. The code official is authorized to require design submittals to be prepared by, and bear the stamp of, a registered design professional.
[A] 104.2.1.3 Content.
The technical opinion and report shall analyze the properties of the design, operation or use of the building or premises, the facilities and appurtenances situated thereon and fuel management to identify and propose necessary recommendations.
[A] 104.2.1.4 Tests.
Where there is insufficient evidence of compliance with the provisions of this code, the code official shall have the authority to require tests as evidence of compliance. Test methods shall be as specified in this code or by other recognized test standards. In the absence of recognized test standards, the code official shall approve the testing procedures. Such tests shall be performed by a party acceptable to the code official.
[A] 104.2.2 Alternative materials, design and methods.
The provisions of this code are not intended to prevent the installation of any material or to prohibit any design or method of construction not specifically prescribed by this code, provided that any such alternative is not specifically prohibited by this code and has been approved.
[A] 104.2.2.1 Approval authority.
An alternative material, design or method shall be approved where the code official finds that the proposed alternative is satisfactory and complies with Sections 104.2.2.2 through 104.2.2.7, as applicable.
[A] 104.2.2.2 Application and disposition.
Where required, a request to use an alternative material, design or method of construction shall be submitted in writing to the code official for approval. Where the alternative material, design or method of construction is not approved, the code official shall respond in writing, stating the reasons the alternative was not approved.
[A] 104.2.2.3 Compliance with code intent.
An alternative material, design or method of construction shall comply with the intent of the provisions of this code.
[A] 104.2.2.4 Equivalency criteria.
An alternative material, design or method of construction shall, for the purpose intended, be not less than the equivalent of that prescribed in this code with respect to all of the following, as applicable:
1. Quality.
2. Strength.
3. Effectiveness.
4. Durability.
5. Safety, other than fire safety.
6. Fire safety.
[A] 104.2.2.5 Tests.
Tests conducted to demonstrate equivalency in support of an alternative material, design or method of construction application shall be of a scale that is sufficient to predict performance of the end use configuration. Tests shall be performed by a party acceptable to the code official.
[A] 104.2.2.5.1 Fire tests.
Tests conducted to demonstrate equivalent fire safety in support of an alternative material, design or method of construction application shall be of a scale that is sufficient to predict fire safety performance of the end use configuration. Tests shall be performed by a party acceptable to the code official.
[A] 104.2.2.6 Reports.
Supporting data, where necessary to assist in the approval of materials or assemblies not specifically provided for in this code, shall comply with Sections 104.2.2.6.1 and 104.2.2.6.2.
[A] 104.2.2.6.1 Evaluation reports.
Evaluation reports shall be issued by an approved agency and use of the evaluation report shall require approval by the code official for the installation. The alternate material, design or method of construction and product evaluated shall be within the scope of the code official’s recognition of the approved agency. Criteria used for the evaluation shall be identified within the report and, where required, provided to the code official.
[A] 104.2.2.6.2 Other reports.
Reports not complying with Section 104.2.2.6.1 shall describe criteria, including but not limited to any referenced testing or analysis, used to determine compliance with code intent and justify code equivalence. The report shall be prepared by a qualified engineer, specialist, laboratory or fire safety specialty organization acceptable to the code official. The code official is authorized to require design submittals to be prepared by, and bear the stamp of, a registered design professional.
[A] 104.2.2.7 Peer review.
The code official is authorized to require submittal of a peer review report in conjunction with a request to use an alternative material, design or method of construction, prepared by a peer reviewer that is approved by the code official.
[A] 104.2.3 Modifications.
Where there are practical difficulties involved in carrying out the provisions of this code, the code official shall have the authority to grant modifications for individual cases, provided that the code official shall first find that one or more special individual reasons make the strict letter of this code impractical, that the modification is in conformance with the intent and purpose of this code, and that such modification does not lessen health, life and fire safety requirements. The details of the written request and action granting modifications shall be recorded and entered into the files of the code enforcement agency.
[A]
104.3 Applications and permits.
The code official is authorized to receive applications, review construction documents and issue permits for construction regulated by this code, issue permits for operations regulated by this code, inspect the premises for which such permits have been issued and enforce compliance with the provisions of this code.
[A]
104.4 Right of entry.
Where it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of this code, or where the code official has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in a structure or on any premises a condition that is contrary to or in violation of this code that makes the structure or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the code official is authorized to enter the structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect or to perform the duties imposed by this code. If such structure or premises is occupied, the code official shall present proper credentials to the occupant and request entry. If such structure or premises is unoccupied, the code official shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner, the owner’s authorized agent or other person having charge or control of the structure or premises and request entry. If such entry is refused, then the code official shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
[A] 104.4.1 Warrant.
Where the code official has first obtained a proper inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, an owner, the owner’s authorized agent, occupant or person having charge, care or control of the structure or premises shall not fail or neglect, after a proper request is made as herein provided, to permit entry therein by the code official for the purposes of inspection and examination pursuant to this code.
[A]
104.5
Identification.
The code official shall carry proper identification when inspecting structures or premises in the performance of duties under this code.
[A]
104.6 Notices and orders.
The code official shall issue all necessary notices or orders to ensure compliance with this code. Notices of violations shall be in accordance with Section 110.2.
[A]
104.7 Official records.
The code official shall keep official records as required by Sections 104.7.1 through 104.7.5. Such official records shall be retained for not less than 5 years or for as long as the structure or activity to which such records relate remains in existence, unless otherwise provided by other regulations.
[A] 104.7.1 Approvals.
A record of approvals shall be maintained by the code official and shall be available for public inspection during business hours in accordance with applicable laws.
[A] 104.7.2 Inspections.
The code official shall keep a record of each inspection made, including notices and orders issued, showing the findings and disposition of each.
[A] 104.7.3
Code alternatives and modifications.
Application for alternative materials, design and methods of construction and equipment in accordance with Section 104.2.2; modifications in accordance with Section 104.2.3; and documentation of the final decision of the code official for either shall be in writing and shall be retained in the official records.
[A] 104.7.4 Tests.
The code official shall keep a record of tests conducted to comply with Sections 104.2.1.4 and 104.2.2.5.
[A] 104.7.5 Fees.
The code official shall keep a record of fees collected and refunded in accordance with Section 108.
[A]
104.8 Liability.
The code official, member of the board of appeals or employee charged with the enforcement of this code, while acting for the jurisdiction, in good faith and without malice in the discharge of the duties required by this code or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not thereby be rendered personally liable, either civilly or criminally, and is hereby relieved from all personal liability for any damage accruing to persons or property as a result of an act or by reason of any act or omission in the discharge of official duties.
[A] 104.8.1 Legal defense.
Any suit or criminal complaint
instituted against any officer or employee because of an act performed by that officer or employee in the lawful discharge of duties and under the provisions of this code or other laws or ordinances implemented through the enforcement of this code shall be defended by legal representatives of the jurisdiction until final termination of the proceedings. The code official or any subordinate shall not be liable for costs in an action, suit or proceeding that is instituted in pursuance of the provisions of this code.
[A]
104.9 Approved materials and equipment.
Materials, equipment and devices approved by the code official shall be constructed and installed in accordance with such approval.
[A] 104.9.1 Materials and equipment reuse.
Materials, equipment and devices shall not be reused unless such elements are in good working order and
approved.
[A]
104.10 Other agencies.
When requested to do so by the code official, other officials of this jurisdiction shall assist and cooperate with the code official in the discharge of the duties required by this code.
Section
105 Permits
[A]
105.1 General.
Where not otherwise provided in the requirements of the International Building Code or International Fire Code, permits are required in accordance with Sections 105.2 through 105.10.
[A]
105.2 Permits required.
Unless otherwise exempted, buildings or structures regulated by this code shall not be erected, constructed, altered, repaired, moved, removed, converted, demolished or changed in use or occupancy unless a separate permit for each building or structure has first been obtained from the code official.For buildings or structures erected for temporary uses, see Section A108.3.Where required by the code official, a permit shall be obtained for the following activities, operations, practices or functions within a wildland-urban interface area:1.Automobile wrecking yard.2.Candles and open flames in assembly areas.3.Explosives or blasting agents.4.Fireworks.5.Flammable or combustible liquids.6.Hazardous materials.7.Liquefied petroleum gases.8.Lumberyards.9.Motor vehicle fuel-dispensing stations.10.Open burning.11.Pyrotechnical special effects material.12.Tents, canopies and temporary membrane structures.13.Tire storage.14.Welding and cutting operations.
[A]
105.3 Work exempt from permit.
Unless otherwise provided in the requirements of the International Building Code or International Fire Code, a permit shall not be required for the following:1.One-story detached accessory structures used as tool and storage sheds, playhouses and similar uses, provided that the floor area does not exceed 120 square feet (11.15 m2) and the structure is located more than 50 feet (15 240 mm) from the nearest adjacent structure.2.Fences not over 6 feet (1829 mm) high. Exemption from the permit requirements of this code shall not be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in violation of the provisions of this code or any other laws or ordinances of this jurisdiction.The code official is authorized to stipulate conditions for permits. Permits shall not be issued where public safety would be at risk, as determined by the code official.
[A]
105.4 Permit application.
To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file an application therefor in writing on a form furnished by the code enforcement agency for that purpose. Every such application shall:1.Identify and describe the work, activity, operation, practice or function to be covered by the permit for which application is made.2.Describe the land on which the proposed work, activity, operation, practice or function is to be done by legal description, street address or similar description that will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building, work, activity, operation, practice or function.3.Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed work, activity, operation, practice or function is intended.4.Be accompanied by plans, diagrams, computation and specifications and other data as required in Section 106 of this code.5.State the valuation of any new building or structure or any addition, remodeling or alteration to an existing building.6.Be signed by the applicant or the applicant’s authorized agent.7.Give such other data and information as required by the code official.
[A] 105.4.1 Preliminary inspection.
Before a permit is issued, the code official is authorized to inspect and approve the systems, equipment, buildings, devices, premises and spaces or areas to be used.
[A] 105.4.2 Time limitation of application.
An application for a permit for any proposed work shall be deemed to have been abandoned 180 days after the date of filing, unless such application has been pursued in good faith or a permit has been issued; except that the code official is authorized to grant one or more extensions of time for additional periods not exceeding 180 days each. The extension shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause demonstrated.
[A]
105.5 Permit approval.
Before a permit is issued, the code official, or an authorized representative, shall review and approve permitted uses, occupancies or structures. Where laws or regulations are enforceable by other agencies or departments, a joint approval shall be obtained from agencies or departments concerned.
[A]
105.6 Permit issuance.
The application, plans, specifications and other data filed by an applicant for a permit shall be reviewed by the code official. If the code official finds that the work described in an application for a permit and the plan, specifications and other data filed therewith conform to the requirements of this code, the code official is allowed to issue a permit to the applicant. When the code official issues the permit, the code official shall endorse in writing or stamp the plans and specifications APPROVED. Such approved plans and specifications shall not be changed, modified or altered without authorization from the code official, and work regulated by this code shall be done in accordance with the
approved plans.
[A] 105.6.1 Refusal to issue a permit.
Where the application or construction documents do not conform to the requirements of pertinent laws, the code official shall reject such application in writing, stating the reasons therefor.
[A]
105.7 Validity of permit.
The issuance or granting of a permit or approval of plans, specifications and computations shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of this code or of any other ordinance of the jurisdiction. Permits presuming to give authority to violate or conceal the provisions of this code or other ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid.
[A]
105.8 Expiration.
Every permit issued by the code official under the provisions of this code shall expire by limitation and become null and void if the building, use or work authorized by such permit is not commenced within 180 days from the date of such permit, or if the building, use or work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned at any time after the work is commenced for a period of 180 days.Any permittee holding an unexpired permit is allowed to apply for an extension of the time within which work is allowed to commence under that permit where the permittee is unable to commence work within the time required by this section for good and satisfactory reasons. The code official is authorized to extend the time for action by the permittee for a period not exceeding 180 days on written request by the permittee showing that circumstances beyond the control of the permittee have prevented action from being taken. Permits shall not be extended more than once.
[A]
105.9 Retention of permits.
Permits shall at all times be kept on the premises designated therein and shall at all times be subject to inspection by the code official or other authorized representative.
[A]
105.10 Revocation of permits.
Permits issued under this code can be suspended or revoked where it is determined by the code official that:1.It is used by a person other than the person to whom the permit was issued.2.It is used for a location other than that for which the permit was issued.3.Any of the conditions or limitations set forth in the permit have been violated.4.The permittee fails, refuses or neglects to comply with any order or notice duly served on him or her under the provisions of this code within the time provided therein.5.There has been any false statement or misrepresentation as to material fact in the application or plans on which the permit or application was made.6.The permit is issued in error or in violation of any other ordinance, regulations or provisions of this code. The code official is allowed to, in writing, suspend or revoke a permit issued under the provisions of this code whenever the permit is issued in error or on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or in violation of any ordinance or regulation or any of the provisions of this code.
Section
106
Construction documents
[A]
106.1 General.
Plans, engineering calculations, diagrams and other data shall be submitted in not fewer than two sets, or in a digital format where allowed by the building official, with each application for a permit. The construction documents shall be prepared by a registered design professional where required by the statutes of the jurisdiction in which the project is to be constructed. Where special conditions exist, the code official is authorized to require additional documents to be prepared by a registered design professional.Exception: Submission of plans, calculations, construction inspection requirements and other data, if it is found that the nature of the work applied for is such that reviewing of plans is not necessary to obtain compliance with this code.
[A]
106.2 Information on plans and specifications.
Plans and specifications shall be drawn to scale on substantial paper or cloth and shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the location, nature and extent of the work proposed, and show in detail that it will conform to the provisions of this code and relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
[A]
106.3 Site plan.
In addition to the requirements for plans in the International Building Code, site plans shall include topography, width and percent of grade of access roads, landscape and vegetation details, locations of structures or building envelopes, existing or proposed overhead utilities, occupancy classification of buildings, types of ignition-resistant construction of buildings, structures and their appendages, roof classification of buildings and site water supply systems. The code official is authorized to waive or modify the requirement for a site plan where the application for permit is for alteration or repair or where otherwise warranted.
[A]
106.4 Vegetation management plans.
Where utilized by the permit applicant pursuant to Section 502, vegetation management plans shall be prepared and shall be submitted to the code official for review and approval as part of the plans required for a permit.
[A]
106.5 Fire protection plan.
Where required by the code official pursuant to Section 405, a fire protection plan shall be prepared and shall be submitted to the code official for review and approved as a part of the plans required for a permit.
[A]
106.6 Other data and substantiation.
Where required by the code official, the plans and specifications shall include classification of fuel loading, fuel model light, medium or heavy, and substantiating data to verify classification of fire-resistive vegetation.
[A]
106.7 Vicinity plan.
In addition to the requirements for site plans, plans shall include details regarding the vicinity within 300 feet (91 440 mm) of lot lines, including other structures, slope, vegetation, fuel breaks, water supply systems and access roads.
[A]
106.8 Retention of plans.
One set of approved plans, specifications and computations shall be retained by the code official for a period of not less than 180 days from date of completion of the permitted work or as required by state or local laws; and one set of
approved plans and specifications shall be returned to the applicant, and said set shall be kept on the site of the building, use or work at all times during which the work authorized thereby is in progress.
[A]
106.9 Examination of documents.
The code official shall examine or cause to be examined the accompanying construction documents and shall ascertain by such examinations whether the construction indicated and described is in accordance with the requirements of this code and other pertinent laws or ordinances.
[A]
106.10 Amended construction documents.
Work shall be installed in accordance with the approved construction documents, and changes made during construction that are not in compliance with the approved documents shall be resubmitted for approval as an amended set of construction documents.
[A]
106.11 Previous approvals.
This code shall not require changes in the construction documents, construction or designated occupancy of a structure for which a lawful permit has been heretofore issued or otherwise lawfully authorized, and the construction of which has been pursued in good faith within 180 days after the effective date of this code and has not been abandoned.
[A]
106.12 Phased approval.
The code official is authorized to issue a permit for the construction of foundations or any other part of a building or structure before the construction documents for the whole building or structure have been submitted, provided that adequate information and detailed statements have been filed complying with pertinent requirements of this code. The holder of such permit for the foundation or other parts of a building or structure shall proceed at the holder’s own risk with the building operation and without assurance that a permit for the entire structure will be granted.
Section
107 Temporary uses, equipment and systems
[A]
107.1 General.
The code official is authorized to issue a permit for temporary uses, equipment and systems. Such permits shall be limited as to time of service, but shall not be permitted for more than 180 days. The code official is authorized to grant extensions for demonstrated cause.
[A]
107.2 Conformance.
Temporary uses, equipment and systems shall conform to the requirements of this code as necessary to ensure health, safety and general welfare.
[A]
107.3 Temporary service utilities.
The code official is authorized to give permission to temporarily supply service utilities in accordance with Section 111.
[A]
107.4 Termination of approval.
The code official is authorized to terminate such permit for temporary uses, equipment and systems and to order the same to be discontinued.
Section
108 Fees
[A]
108.1 Payment of fees.
A permit shall not be valid until the fees prescribed by law have been paid. An amendment to a permit shall not be released until the additional fee, if any, has been paid
[A]
108.2 Schedule of permit fees.
Where a permit is required, a fee for each permit shall be paid as required, in accordance with the schedule as established by the applicable governing authority.
[A]
108.3 Permit valuations.
The applicant for a permit shall provide an estimated value of the work for which the permit is being issued at time of application. Such estimated valuations shall include the total value of work, including materials and labor, for which the permit is being issued. Where, in the opinion of the applicable governing authority, the valuation is underestimated, the permit shall be denied, unless the applicant can show detailed estimates acceptable to the applicable governing authority. The applicable governing authority shall have the authority to adjust the final valuation for permit fees.
[A]
108.4 Work commencing before permit issuance.
Any person who commences any work before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to a fee established by the applicable governing authority, which shall be in addition to the required permit fees.
[A]
108.5 Related fees.
The payment of the fee for the construction, alteration, removal or demolition of work done in connection to or concurrently with the work or activity authorized by a permit shall not relieve the applicant or holder of the permit from the payment of other fees that are prescribed by law.
[A]
108.6 Refunds.
The applicable governing authority is authorized to establish a refund policy.
Section
109 Inspection and enforcement
[A]
109.1 Inspection.
Inspections shall be in accordance with Sections 109.1.1 through 109.1.4.3.
[A] 109.1.1 General.
Construction or work for which a permit is required by this code shall be subject to inspection by the code official and such construction or work shall remain visible and able to be accessed for inspection purposes until approved by the code official.It shall be the duty of the permit applicant to cause the work to remain visible and able to be accessed for inspection purposes. Neither the code official nor the jurisdiction shall be liable for expense entailed in the removal or replacement of any material required to allow inspection.Approval as a result of an inspection shall not be construed to be an approval of a violation of the provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction. Inspections presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid.Where required by the code official, a survey of the lot shall be provided to verify that the mitigation features are provided and the building or structure is located in accordance with the approved plans.
[A] 109.1.2 Authority to inspect.
The code official shall inspect, as often as necessary, buildings and premises, including such other hazards or appliances designated by the code official for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to be corrected any conditions that could reasonably be expected to cause fire or contribute to its spread, or any violation of the purpose of this code and of any other law or standard affecting fire safety.
[A] 109.1.2.1 Approved inspection agencies.
The code official is authorized to accept reports of approved inspection agencies, provided that such agencies satisfy the requirements as to qualifications and reliability.
[A] 109.1.2.2 Inspection requests.
It shall be the duty of the holder of the permit or their duly authorized agent to notify the code official when work is ready for inspection. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to provide access to and means for inspections of such work that are required by this code.
[A] 109.1.2.3 Approval required.
Work shall not be done beyond the point indicated in each successive inspection without first obtaining the approval of the code official. The code official, upon notification, shall make the requested inspections and shall either indicate the portion of the construction that is satisfactory as completed, or notify the permit holder or his or her agent wherein the same fails to comply with this code. Any portions that do not comply shall be corrected and such portion shall not be covered or concealed until authorized by the code official.
[A] 109.1.3 Reinspections.
To determine compliance with this code, the code official can cause a structure to be reinspected. A fee can be assessed for each inspection or reinspection where work for which inspection is called is not complete or where corrections called for are not made.Reinspection fees can be assessed where the
approved plans are not readily available to the inspector, for failure to provide access on the date for which inspection is requested or for deviating from plans requiring the approval of the code official.To obtain a reinspection, the applicant shall pay the reinspection fee as set forth in the fee schedule adopted by the jurisdiction. Where reinspection fees have been assessed, additional inspection of the work will not be performed until the required fees have been paid.
[A] 109.1.4 Testing.
Installations shall be tested as required in this code and in accordance with Sections 109.1.4.1 through 109.1.4.3. Tests shall be made by the permit holder or authorized agent and observed by the code official.
[A] 109.1.4.1 New, altered, extended or repaired installations.
New installations and parts of existing installations that have been altered, extended, renovated or repaired, shall be tested as prescribed herein to disclose defects.
[A] 109.1.4.2 Apparatus, instruments, material and labor for tests.
Apparatus, instruments, material and labor required for testing an installation or part thereof shall be furnished by the permit holder or authorized agent.
[A] 109.1.4.3 Reinspection and testing.
Where any work or installation does not pass an initial test or inspection, the necessary corrections shall be made so as to achieve compliance with this code. The work or installation shall then be resubmitted to the code official for inspection and testing.
[A]
109.2 Enforcement.
Enforcement shall be in accordance with Sections 109.2.1 and 109.2.2.
[A] 109.2.1 Authorization to issue corrective orders and notices.
Where the code official finds any building or premises that are in violation of this code, the code official is authorized to issue corrective orders and notices.
[A] 109.2.2 Service of orders and notices.
Orders and notices authorized or required by this code shall be given or served on the owner, the owner’s authorized agent, operator, occupant or other person responsible for the condition or violation either by verbal notification, personal service, or delivering the same to, and leaving it with, a person of suitable age and discretion on the premises; or, if such person is not found on the premises, by affixing a copy thereof in a conspicuous place on the door to the entrance of said premises and by mailing a copy thereof to such person by registered or certified mail to the person’s last known address.Orders or notices that are given verbally shall be confirmed by service in writing as herein provided.
[A]
109.3 Compliance with orders and notices.
Compliance with orders and notices shall be in accordance with Sections 109.3.1 through 109.3.8.
[A] 109.3.1 General compliance.
Orders and notices issued or served as provided by this code shall be complied with by the owner, the owner’s authorized agent, operator, occupant or other person responsible for the condition or violation to which the corrective order or notice pertains.If the building or premises is not occupied, then such corrective orders or notices shall be complied with by the owner or the owner’s authorized agent.
[A] 109.3.2 Compliance with tags.
A building or premises shall not be used when in violation of this code as noted on a tag affixed in accordance with Section 109.3.1.
[A] 109.3.3 Removal and destruction of signs and tags.
A sign or tag posted or affixed by the code official shall not be mutilated, destroyed or removed without authorization by the code official.
[A] 109.3.4 Citations.
Persons operating or maintaining an occupancy, premises or vehicle subject to this code who allow a hazard to exist or fail to take immediate action to abate a hazard on such occupancy, premises or vehicle when ordered or notified to do so by the code official shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
[A] 109.3.5 Unsafe conditions.
Buildings, structures or premises that constitute a fire hazard or are otherwise dangerous to human life, or that in relation to existing use constitute a hazard to safety or health or public welfare, by reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, fire hazard, disaster damage or abandonment as specified in this code or any other ordinance, are unsafe conditions. Unsafe buildings or structures shall not be used. Unsafe buildings are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal, pursuant to applicable state and local laws and codes.
[A] 109.3.5.1 Record.
The code official shall cause a report to be filed on an unsafe condition. The report shall state the occupancy of the structure and the nature of the unsafe condition.
[A] 109.3.5.2 Notice.
Where an unsafe condition is found, the code official shall serve on the owner, owner’s authorized agent or person in control of the building, structure or premises, a written notice that describes the condition deemed unsafe and specifies the required repairs or improvements to be made to abate the unsafe condition, or requires the unsafe structure to be demolished. Such notice shall require the person thus notified, or their designee, to declare to the code official within a stipulated time, acceptance or rejection of the terms of the order.
[A] 109.3.5.2.1 Method of service.
Such notice shall be deemed properly served where a copy thereof is served by one of the following methods:1.Delivered to the owner or the owner’s authorized agent personally.2.Sent by certified or registered mail addressed to the owner or the owner’s authorized agent at the last known address with a return receipt requested.3.Delivered in any other manner as prescribed by local law. Where the certified or registered letter is returned showing that the letter was not delivered, a copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by such notice. Service of such notice in the foregoing manner on the owner’s authorized agent or on the person responsible for the structure shall constitute service of notice on the owner.
[A] 109.3.5.3 Placarding.
Upon failure of the owner, the owner’s authorized agent or the person responsible to comply with the notice provisions within the time given, the code official shall post on the premises or on defective equipment a placard bearing the word “UNSAFE” and a statement of the penalties provided for occupying the premises, operating the equipment or removing the placard.
[A] 109.3.5.3.1 Placard removal.
The code official shall remove the unsafe condition placard whenever the defect or defects on which the unsafe condition and placarding action were based have been eliminated. Any person who defaces or removes an unsafe condition placard without the approval of the code official shall be subject to the penalties provided by this code.
[A] 109.3.5.4 Abatement.
The owner, the owner’s authorized agent, operator or occupant of a building, structure or premises deemed unsafe by the code official shall abate, correct or cause to be abated or corrected such unsafe conditions either by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or other approved corrective action.
[A] 109.3.5.5 Summary abatement.
Where conditions exist that are deemed hazardous to life and property, the code official is authorized to abate or correct summarily such hazardous conditions that are in violation of this code.
[A] 109.3.5.6 Evacuation.
The code official shall be authorized to order the immediate evacuation of any occupied building, structure or premises deemed unsafe where such hazardous conditions exist that present imminent danger to the occupants. Persons so notified shall immediately leave the structure or premises and shall not enter or reenter until authorized to do so by the code official.
[A] 109.3.6 Prosecution of violation.
If the notice of violation is not complied with promptly, the code official is authorized to request the legal counsel of the jurisdiction to institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to require the removal or termination of the unlawful occupancy of the building or structure in violation of the provisions of this code or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto.
[A] 109.3.7 Violation penalties.
Persons who shall violate a provision of this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall erect, install, alter, repair or do work in violation of the approved construction documents or directive of the code official, or of a permit or certificate used under provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a [SPECIFY OFFENSE], punishable by a fine of not more than [AMOUNT] dollars or by imprisonment not exceeding [NUMBER OF DAYS], or both such fine and imprisonment. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
[A] 109.3.8 Abatement of violation.
In addition to the imposition of the penalties herein described, the code official is authorized to institute appropriate action to prevent unlawful construction or to restrain, correct or abate a violation; or to prevent illegal occupancy of a structure or premises; or to stop an illegal act, conduct of business or occupancy of a structure on or about any premises.
Section
110 Certificate of completion
[A]
110.1 General.
A building, structure or premises shall not be used or occupied, and a change in the existing use or occupancy classification of a building, structure, premise or portion thereof shall not be made until the code official has issued a certificate of completion therefor as provided herein. The certificate of occupancy shall not be issued until the certificate of completion indicating that the project is in compliance with this code has been issued by the code official.
[A]
110.2 Certificate of occupancy.
Issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall not be construed as an approval of a violation of the provisions of this code or of other pertinent laws and ordinances of the jurisdiction. Certificates presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this code or other laws or ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid.Exceptions: 1.Certificates of occupancy are not required for work exempt from permits under Section 105.3.2.Accessory structures.
[A]
110.3 Temporary occupancy.
The code official is authorized to issue a temporary certificate of occupancy before the completion of the entire work covered by the permit, provided that such portion or portions shall be occupied safely. The code official shall set a time period during which the temporary certificate of occupancy is valid.
[A]
110.4 Revocation.
The code official is authorized to, in writing, suspend or revoke a certificate of occupancy or completion issued under the provisions of this code wherever the certificate is issued in error, on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or where it is determined that the building or structure, premise or portion thereof is in violation of any ordinance or regulation or any of the provisions of this code.
Section
111 Service utilities
[A]
111.1 Connection of service utilities.
A person shall not make connections from a utility, source of energy, fuel, power, water system or sewer system to any building or system that is regulated by this code for which a permit is required until authorized by the code official.
[A]
111.2 Temporary connection.
The code official shall have the authority to authorize the temporary connection of the building or system to the utility, source of energy, fuel, power, water system or sewer system for the purpose of testing systems or for use under a temporary approval.
[A]
111.3 Authority to disconnect service utilities.
The code official shall have the authority to authorize disconnection of utility service to the building, structure or system regulated by this code and the referenced codes and standards in case of emergency where necessary to eliminate an immediate hazard to life or property or where such utility connection has been made without the approval required by Sections 111.1 and 111.2. The code official shall notify the serving utility and, where possible, the owner or the owner’s authorized agent and the occupant of the building, structure or service system of the decision to disconnect prior to taking such action. If not notified prior to disconnection, the owner, the owner’s authorized agent or the occupant of the building, structure or service system shall be notified in writing as soon as practical thereafter.
Section
112 Means of appeals
[A]
112.1 General.
In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations made by the code official relative to the application and interpretation of this code, there shall be and is hereby created a board of appeals. The board of appeals shall be appointed by the applicable governing authority and shall hold office at its pleasure. The board shall adopt rules of procedure for conducting its business and shall render all decisions and findings in writing to the appellant, with a duplicate copy to the code official.
[A]
112.2 Limitations on authority.
An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply or an equivalent or better form of construction is proposed. The board shall not have authority to waive requirements of this code.
[A]
112.3 Qualifications.
The board of appeals shall consist of members who are qualified by experience and training on matters pertaining to the provisions of this code and are not employees of the jurisdiction.
[A]
112.4 Administration.
The code official shall take action without delay in accordance with the decision of the board.
Section
113 Stop work order
[A]
113.1 Authority.
Where the code official finds any work regulated by this code being performed in a manner contrary to the provisions of this code or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, the code official is authorized to issue a stop work order.
[A]
113.2 Issuance.
The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, the owner’s authorized agent or the person performing the work. Upon issuance of a stop work order, the cited work shall immediately cease. The stop work order shall state the reason for the order and the conditions under which the cited work is authorized to resume.
[A]
113.3 Emergencies.
Where an emergency exists, the code official shall not be required to give a written notice prior to stopping the work.
[A]
113.4 Failure to comply.
Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to fines established by the authority having jurisdiction.
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
I-Codes • 2024
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.