======================================================================
Appendix B Worksheet for Assigning Specific Structures to Performance Groups
======================================================================

Appendix A Risk Factors Of Use And Occupancy Classifications 2 - International Code Council Performance Code (ICCPC)
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2024
International Code Council Performance Code (ICCPC)
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2024 International Code Council Performance Code (ICCPC) 2024 International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC) 2024 International Energy Conservation Code (IECC) 2024 International Existing Building Code (IEBC) 2024 International Fuel Gas Code (IFGC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
I-Codes
/
2024 International Code Council Performance Code (ICCPC)
Appendix A Risk Factors of Use and Occupancy Classifications
2024 International Code Council Performance Code (ICCPC)
favorite_border
Version:
Sep 2025
Contents
Notes
Overview
Copyright
Preface
Part I Administrative
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Chapter 2 Definitions
Chapter 3 Design Performance Levels
Chapter 4 Reliability and Durability
Part II Technical Requirements
Chapter 5 Stability
Chapter 6 Pedestrian Circulation
Chapter 7 Safety of Users
Chapter 8 Moisture
Chapter 9 Interior Environment
Chapter 10 Mechanical
Chapter 11 Plumbing
Chapter 12 Fuel Gas
Chapter 13 Electricity
Chapter 14 Energy Efficiency
Chapter 15 Fire Prevention and Impact Management
Chapter 16 Management of People
Chapter 17 Emergency Access and Facilities
Chapter 18 Emergency Responder Safety
Chapter 19 Hazardous Materials
Chapter 20 Referenced Standards
Part IV Appendices
Appendix A Risk Factors of Use and Occupancy Classifications
Appendix B Worksheet for Assigning Specific Structures to Performance Groups
Appendix C Individually Substantiated Design Method
Appendix D Qualification Characteristics for Design and Review of Performance-Based Designs
Appendix E Use of Computer Models
Index
2024 International Code Councilperformance CODE® for Buildings and Facilities User’s Guide
Foreword
Part I Administrative
Chapter 1 General Administrative Provisions
Chapter 2 Definitions
Chapter 3 Design Performance Levels
Chapter 4 Reliability and Durability
Part II Building
Chapter 5 Stability
Chapter 6 Pedestrian Circulation
Chapter 7 Safety of Users
Chapter 8 Moisture
Chapter 9 Interior Environment
Chapter 10 Mechanical
Chapter 11 Plumbing
Chapter 12 Fuel Gas
Chapter 13 Electricity
Chapter 14 Energy Efficiency
Part III Fire
Chapter 15 Fire Prevention and Impact Management
Chapter 16 Management of People
Chapter 17 Emergency Access and Facilities
Chapter 18 Emergency Responder Safety
Chapter 19 Hazardous Materials
Part IV Appendices
Appendix A Risk Factors of Use and Occupancy Classifications
A101 Objective
A102 Functional Statements
A103 Use and Occupancy Classifications
Appendix B Worksheet for Assigning Specific Structures to Performance Groups
Appendix C Individually Substantiated Design Method
Appendix D Qualification Characteristics for Design and Review of Performance-Based Designs
Appendix E Use of Computer Models
References
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
Appendix A Risk Factors of Use and Occupancy Classifications
A101 Objective
This section classifies buildings, structures and portions of buildings and structures by their primary use in order to facilitate design and construction in accordance with other provisions of this code. When determining the design performance level, the building or structure needs to be assigned to a performance group. This appendix provides guidance as to the use group or occupancy classification of the building to determine the performance group when applying Table 303.1. The performance group classifications are needed to address the language in the various provisions that requires design features to be appropriate to the use for performance-based acceptable solutions and to provide the basis for the use of applicable provisions of the International Building Code® (IBC®) as “deemed to comply” acceptable methods. If this appendix is used, any assumptions should be documented and verified. The descriptions found in this appendix need to be taken as a starting point, as many buildings and facilities have unique characteristics that would make a performance-based analysis on a general use and occupancy classification inappropriate.
A102 Functional Statements
This section states which factors should be considered when determining the primary use of a building. These factors include the use of the occupancy classifications found in the IBC and an analysis of the hazards and risks to the occupants. It is again emphasized that the occupancy classifications alone may not be sufficient, because of the unique hazards and risks associated with a particular building or facility.
A103 Use and Occupancy Classifications
To provide consistency between the provisions of this code and the provisions of the IBC, the fundamental definitions for use and occupancy classifications are the same.Should the IBC be used as the basis for an acceptable method for any of the use and occupancy classifications listed in this section, all of the applicable provisions of the IBC shall be applied.
A103.1 General
To provide a better understanding of the reasons and assumptions behind various use and occupancy classifications, and to provide a codified foundation for use of performance-based analysis and design methods as the basis for developing acceptable solutions for any of the use and occupancy classifications listed in this section, Appendix A has taken the occupancy classifications from the IBC and provided detail related to assumptions. The following sections provided some additional insight on those assumptions for the various classifications. Additional characteristics can be used for individual situations if the information is available and supportable.
A103.1.1 Assembly
These assumptions reflect nominal characteristics of persons using a public or commercial assembly space (all assembly areas outside of a one- or two-family residential occupancy) and provide the basis for such estimations as time to recognize an alarm, time to begin to exit, and time to find the way to a place of safety. This reflects the expectation that spaces where large populations are gathered will be afforded a high level of protection to avoid catastrophic losses (i.e., a large loss of life in a single space is generally perceived as being worse than the loss of one or two lives in multiple, smaller events).
A103.1.2 Business
These assumptions reflect nominal characteristics of persons using a business occupancy and provide the basis for such estimations as time to recognize an alarm, time to begin to exit and time to find the way to a place of safety. Generally, people using business spaces have limited responsibility for their own safety and are relying on the owners, managers and insurers of the space to provide an adequate level of safety. There is an expectation that large populations of the public will not be exposed to a high level of risk and that the building owners, managers and insurers retain significant responsibility for the safety of employees and visitors, but that the building or structure is not considered critical in emergency situations.
A103.1.3 Educational
This assumption reflects the fact that the people using educational spaces have limited responsibility for their own safety and are relying on the owners, managers, employees and insurers of the space to provide an adequate level of safety. There is an expectation that spaces wherein large populations of children and young adults are gathered will be afforded a high level of protection to avoid catastrophic losses (i.e., a large loss of life in a single space is generally perceived as being worse than the loss of one or two lives in multiple, smaller events) and that the building or structure may serve a necessary purpose in the event of an emergency (i.e., shelter). The tolerance for any loss in such occupancies is very low because these buildings house children and young adults, and schools play a vital role in a community.
A103.1.4 Factory—industrial
The assumptions for factory occupancies reflect the fact that the people in factory spaces have significant understanding of the risks associated with the occupancy and have significant responsibility for their own safety.
A103.1.5 Hazardous
These assumptions reflect the fact that the people in hazardous spaces have significant understanding of the risks associated with the occupancy. Although the users of the building or structure may voluntarily accept the associated risks, they have little control over the hazards and have only moderate responsibility for their own safety; thus, they rely on built-in protection to minimize the risks to the extent practicable. This reflects the perception that if the structure is classified as hazardous, the level of protection must be high.
A103.1.6 Institutional
These assumptions reflect nominal characteristics of persons in an institutional occupancy and provide the basis for such estimations as time to recognize an alarm, time to begin to exit, and time to find the way to a place of safety. These assumptions reflect the fact that occupants of institutional spaces have limited to no responsibility for their own safety and are relying heavily on the staff, owners, managers and insurers of the space to provide an adequate level of safety. In part, this reflects the expectation that spaces where large populations of confined or nonambulatory persons are gathered will be afforded a high level of protection to avoid catastrophic losses. In addition, the building or structure may play an important role in the event of an emergency. Furthermore, there is a large vulnerable population that is dependent on others. The various classifications of Group I Occupancies have a spectrum of vulnerabilities. In some cases, the occupants are physically able to react to an emergency, but their movement is restricted. In other Group I Occupancies such as hospitals, the occupants are generally free to come and go but are physically unable to undertake egress on their own. Institutional occupancies often depend on defend-in-place strategies versus building evacuation.
A103.1.7 Mercantile
This assumption reflects the fact that the people in mercantile spaces have limited responsibility for their own safety and are relying on the employees, owners, managers and insurers of the space to provide an adequate level of safety.
A103.1.8 Residential
Residential occupancies in general are buildings where occupants will be sleeping. There are different variations of types but the fact that such occupancies are in part used for sleeping makes the occupants more vulnerable from a life safety perspective.
A103.1.8.1 R-1, Transient
A103.1.8.1.1 R-1.1, Hotel/motel
These assumptions reflect nominal characteristics of persons in hotel/motel occupancies, wherein some employees are expected to be awake through the night. These assumptions provide the basis for such estimations as time to recognize an alarm, time to begin to exit and time to find the way to a place of safety. These assumptions reflect the fact that occupants of such residential spaces have limited to no responsibility for their own safety and are relying heavily on the employees, owners, managers and insurers of the space to provide an adequate level of safety. This reflects the expectation that spaces where large populations are gathered, some of whom may be disabled or impaired, will be afforded a high level of protection to avoid catastrophic losses (i.e., a large loss of life in a single space is generally perceived as being worse than the loss of one or two lives in multiple, smaller events).
A103.1.8.1.2 R-1.2, Boarding houses
These assumptions reflect nominal characteristics of persons in boarding house occupancies, wherein employees may be sleeping. These assumptions provide the basis for such estimations as time to recognize an alarm, time to begin to exit and time to find the way to a place of safety. These assumptions reflect the fact that occupants of such residential spaces have limited to no responsibility for their own safety and are relying in part on the employees, owners, managers and insurers of the space to provide an adequate level of safety. This reflects the expectation that spaces where large populations, some of whom may be disabled or impaired, are gathered will be afforded a high level of protection to avoid catastrophic losses (i.e., a large loss of life in a single space is generally perceived as being worse than the loss of one or two lives in multiple, smaller events).
A103.1.8.2 R-2, Multitenant residential
These assumptions reflect nominal characteristics of persons in an apartment-type occupancy and provide the basis for such estimations as time to recognize an alarm, time to begin to exit and time to find the way to a place of safety. These assumptions reflect the fact that the people in apartment spaces have significant responsibility for their own safety. This reflects the situation in which the owner maintains some level of responsibility in that the tenants cannot control risks in the building outside of their own living units. Where large populations are gathered and where occupants, some of whom may be disabled or impaired, are in greater density, there is an expectation that such spaces will be afforded a high level of protection to avoid catastrophic losses (i.e., a large loss of life in a single space is generally perceived as being worse than the loss of one or two lives in multiple, smaller events).
A103.1.8.3 R-3, One- and two-family residential
These assumptions reflect the fact that the people in one- and two-family residential spaces have significant responsibility for their own safety and the expectation that a person’s home is his or her castle (i.e., more responsibility on the homeowner than on the local government to protect the occupants).
A103.1.8.4 R-4, Residential care
These assumptions reflect nominal characteristics of persons in residential care occupancies, wherein staff may be assumed to be asleep and provide the basis for such estimations as time to recognize an alarm, time to begin to exit and time to find the way to a place of safety. These assumptions reflect the fact that occupants of such residential spaces have limited to no responsibility for their own safety and are relying heavily on the staff, owners, managers and insurers of the space to provide an adequate level of safety. Where large populations are gathered and where occupants, some of whom may be disabled or impaired, are in greater density, there is an expectation that such spaces will be afforded a high level of protection to avoid catastrophic losses (i.e., a large loss of life in a single space is generally perceived as being worse than the loss of one or two lives in multiple, smaller events).
A103.1.9 Special use
A103.1.9.1 SP-1, Covered mall building
These assumptions reflect nominal characteristics of persons in mercantile-type occupancies and provide the basis for such estimations as time to recognize an alarm, time to begin to exit and time to find the way to a place of safety. It is generally assumed that the people in mercantile spaces have limited responsibility for their own safety and are relying on the employees, owners, managers and insurers of the space to provide an adequate level of safety. This reflects the expectation that although spaces where large populations are gathered should be afforded a higher level of protection to avoid catastrophic losses (i.e., a large loss of life in a single space is generally perceived as being worse than the loss of one or two lives in multiple, smaller events), the users of the space will be aware, awake and readily able to respond in emergency situations.
A103.1.9.2 SP-2, High-rise building
The assumed risk levels, hazard levels and occupant characteristics shall be appropriate to the uses present within the building, and the structural, fire protection and means of egress features shall be designed to accommodate the highest risk level present in the building. As a high-rise building is simply a larger and taller building of an otherwise defined use classification, the appropriate risk levels, hazard levels and occupant characteristics for the base use classification apply. Given the increased amount of people due to the larger size, the increased complexity of egress, and the increased difficulty presented to emergency responders, a higher level of risk and safety is appropriate. In multi-use high-rise buildings, the total population, the distribution of their characteristics and the distributions of the risk should be considered in selecting a base risk level. As a starting point, the highest level of risk by use group classification should be assumed. It shall also be assumed that public expectations regarding the protection afforded those occupying, visiting or working in such a building, structure or portion of the building or structure are high. This reflects the expectation that spaces where large populations are gathered, some of whom may be disabled or impaired, will be afforded a high level of protection to avoid catastrophic losses (i.e., a large loss of life in a single space is generally perceived as being worse than the loss of one or two lives in multiple, smaller events).
A103.1.9.3 SP-3, Atrium
As an atrium will be located in a building of an otherwise defined use classification, the appropriate risk levels, hazard levels and occupant characteristics for the base use classification apply. Atriums have a special category primarily related to the concerns of the vertical movement of smoke through a building during a fire. Note that atriums are essentially a vertical shaft but are given special allowances and requirements in the IBC. It should be noted that there are other ways to address floor openings in the IBC.
A103.1.9.4 SP-4, Underground building
An underground building is simply a designation for an otherwise defined use group classification that happens to be below grade, the appropriate risk levels, hazard levels and occupant characteristics for the base use classification apply. The primary reason for the special treatment of such buildings is similar to those of a high-rise building. More specifically, evacuation of occupants becomes more complex, and it increases the difficulty of managing smoke, performing search and rescue operations, and responding to an emergency.
A103.1.9.5 SP-5, Mechanical-access open parking garage
These assumptions reflect nominal characteristics of persons in a garage occupancy and provide the basis for such estimations as time to recognize an alarm, time to begin to exit and time to find the way to a place of safety. Generally, such buildings will be occupied by employees only above the ground floor who, as noted in Appendix A, will be awake, alert and able to exit without the assistance of others.
A103.1.9.6 SP-6, Ramp-access open parking garage
These assumptions reflect nominal characteristics of persons in a garage occupancy and provide the basis for such estimations as time to recognize an alarm, time to begin to exit and time to find the way to a place of safety. Unlike mechanical-access open parking garages, the general public will likely be allowed to move throughout ramp access parking garages. This will change the level of familiarity of the occupants and possibly allow a larger number of occupants.
A103.1.9.7 SP-7, Enclosed parking garage
These assumptions reflect nominal characteristics of persons in a garage occupancy and provide the basis for such estimations as time to recognize an alarm, time to begin to exit and time to find the way to a place of safety. Enclosed parking garages are those garages that cannot meet the requirements for open parking garages. Therefore, the hazards imposed upon the occupants are somewhat different. If a fire were to occur, the smoke would not dissipate as well as it would for an open parking garage.
A103.1.9.8 SP-8, Motor vehicle service station
These assumptions reflect nominal characteristics of persons in a service station occupancy and provide the basis for such estimations as time to recognize an alarm, time to begin to exit and time to find the way to a place of safety. The current code terms these as motor vehicle fuel dispensing facilities
A103.1.9.9 SP-9, Motor vehicle repair garage
These assumptions reflect nominal characteristics of persons in a motor vehicle repair occupancy and provide the basis for such estimations as time to recognize an alarm, time to begin to exit and time to find the way to a place of safety.
A103.1.9.10 SP-10, Motion picture projection room
These assumptions reflect nominal characteristics of persons in a projection room occupancy and provide the basis for such estimations as time to recognize an alarm, time to begin to exit and time to find the way to a place of safety.
A103.1.9.11 SP-11, Stages and platforms
These assumptions reflect nominal characteristics of persons using stages and platforms and provide the basis for such estimations as time to recognize an alarm, time to begin to exit and time to find the way to a place of safety.
A103.1.9.12 SP-12, Special amusement building
These assumptions reflect nominal characteristics of persons in a special amusement occupancy and provide the basis for such estimations as time to recognize an alarm, time to begin to exit and time to find the way to a place of safety. These assumptions reflect the fact that the people in special amusement buildings have limited responsibility for their own safety and are relying on the employees, owners, managers and insurers of the space to provide an adequate level of safety. There is an expectation that spaces where large populations, some of whom may be disabled or impaired, are gathered will be afforded a high level of protection to avoid catastrophic losses (i.e., a large loss of life in a single space is generally perceived as being worse than the loss of one or two lives in multiple, smaller events).
A103.1.9.13 SP-13, Aircraft-related structure
These assumptions reflect nominal characteristics of persons in aircraft-related structures and provide the basis for such estimations as time to recognize an alarm, time to begin to exit and time to find the way to a place of safety.
A103.1.10 Storage
These assumptions reflect nominal characteristics of persons in a storage occupancy and provide the basis for such estimations as time to recognize an alarm, time to begin to exit and time to find the way to a place of safety. People using storage spaces have significant responsibility for their own safety and are not relying on the owners, managers and insurers of the space to provide an adequate level of safety.
A103.1.11 Utility and miscellaneous
These assumptions reflect nominal characteristics of persons using miscellaneous occupancies and provide the basis for such estimations as time to recognize an alarm, time to begin to exit and time to find the way to a place of safety. These assumptions reflect the fact that the people using miscellaneous spaces have significant responsibility for their own safety and are not relying on the owners, managers and insurers of the space to provide an adequate level of safety.Acceptable methods Given that use groups are definitions, there are no acceptable methods. However, should an additional definition be required and/or a prescriptive approach to building design and construction be desired, applicable definitions and associated requirements in Chapters 3 and 4 of the IBC are permitted to be used.Alternative classifications for building use are permitted where the use in the opinion of the designer, code official, building developer, owner or manager is not adequately defined by this code and for which adequate justification is provided.As the use classifications are based on primary building use, occupant characteristics, risk-to-life of the occupants and importance of the building or its contents to the local community, any information that can better support any of these areas would be appropriate.
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
•
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.