======================================================================
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
======================================================================

Preface - International Code Council Performance Code (ICCPC)
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2024
International Code Council Performance Code (ICCPC)
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2024 International Code Council Performance Code (ICCPC) 2024 International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC) 2024 International Energy Conservation Code (IECC) 2024 International Existing Building Code (IEBC) 2024 International Fuel Gas Code (IFGC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
I-Codes
/
2024 International Code Council Performance Code (ICCPC)
Preface
2024 International Code Council Performance Code (ICCPC)
favorite_border
Version:
Sep 2025
Contents
Notes
Overview
Copyright
Preface
Formatting Changes to the 2024 International Codes
Accessing Additional Features via Registration of Book
About the I-Codes
Introduction to the International Performance Code
Arrangement and Format of the 2024 Iccpc
Guide to the Use of the International Code Council Performance Code for Buildings and Facilities
Relocation of Chapters or Sections
Part I Administrative
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Chapter 2 Definitions
Chapter 3 Design Performance Levels
Chapter 4 Reliability and Durability
Part II Technical Requirements
Chapter 5 Stability
Chapter 6 Pedestrian Circulation
Chapter 7 Safety of Users
Chapter 8 Moisture
Chapter 9 Interior Environment
Chapter 10 Mechanical
Chapter 11 Plumbing
Chapter 12 Fuel Gas
Chapter 13 Electricity
Chapter 14 Energy Efficiency
Chapter 15 Fire Prevention and Impact Management
Chapter 16 Management of People
Chapter 17 Emergency Access and Facilities
Chapter 18 Emergency Responder Safety
Chapter 19 Hazardous Materials
Chapter 20 Referenced Standards
Part IV Appendices
Appendix A Risk Factors of Use and Occupancy Classifications
Appendix B Worksheet for Assigning Specific Structures to Performance Groups
Appendix C Individually Substantiated Design Method
Appendix D Qualification Characteristics for Design and Review of Performance-Based Designs
Appendix E Use of Computer Models
Index
2024 International Code Councilperformance CODE® for Buildings and Facilities User’s Guide
Foreword
Part I Administrative
Chapter 1 General Administrative Provisions
Chapter 2 Definitions
Chapter 3 Design Performance Levels
Chapter 4 Reliability and Durability
Part II Building
Chapter 5 Stability
Chapter 6 Pedestrian Circulation
Chapter 7 Safety of Users
Chapter 8 Moisture
Chapter 9 Interior Environment
Chapter 10 Mechanical
Chapter 11 Plumbing
Chapter 12 Fuel Gas
Chapter 13 Electricity
Chapter 14 Energy Efficiency
Part III Fire
Chapter 15 Fire Prevention and Impact Management
Chapter 16 Management of People
Chapter 17 Emergency Access and Facilities
Chapter 18 Emergency Responder Safety
Chapter 19 Hazardous Materials
Part IV Appendices
Appendix A Risk Factors of Use and Occupancy Classifications
Appendix B Worksheet for Assigning Specific Structures to Performance Groups
Appendix C Individually Substantiated Design Method
Appendix D Qualification Characteristics for Design and Review of Performance-Based Designs
Appendix E Use of Computer Models
References
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
PREFACE
FORMATTING CHANGES TO THE 2024 INTERNATIONAL CODES The 2024 International Codes® (I-Codes®) have undergone substantial formatting changes as part of the digital transformation strategy of the International Code Council® (ICC®) to improve the user experience. The resulting product better aligns the print and PDF versions of the I-Codes with the ICC’s Digital Code content. Additional information can be found at iccsafe.org/design-updates.
Replacement of Marginal Markings with QR Codes
Through 2021, print editions of the I-Codes identified technical changes from prior code cycles with marginal markings [solid vertical lines for new text, deletion arrows (), asterisks for relocations (*)]. The 2024 I-Code print editions replace the marginal markings with QR codes to identify code changes more precisely.A QR code is placed at the beginning of any section that has undergone technical revision. If there is no QR code, there are no technical changes to that section.In the following example from the 2024 International Code Council Performance Code® for Buildings and Facilities (ICCPC®), a QR code indicates there are changes to Section 101 from the 2021 ICCPC. Note that the change may occur in the main section or in one or more subsections of the main section. To see the code changes, the user need only scan the QR code with a smart device. If scanning a QR code is not an option, changes can be accessed by entering the 7-digit code beneath the QR code at the end of the following URL: qr.iccsafe.org/ (in the above example, “qr.iccsafe.org/e7c1e5d”). Those viewing the code book via PDF can click on the QR code.All methods take the user to the appropriate section on ICC’s Digital Codes website, where technical changes from the prior cycle can be viewed. Digital Codes Premium subscribers who are logged in will be automatically directed to the Premium view. All other users will be directed to the Digital Codes Basic free view. Both views show new code language in blue text along with deletion arrows for deleted text and relocation markers for relocated text.Digital Codes Premium offers additional ways to enhance code compliance research, including revision histories, commentary by code experts and an advanced search function. A full list of features can be found at codes.iccsafe.org/premium-features.
ACCESSING ADDITIONAL FEATURES VIA REGISTRATION OF BOOK Beginning with the 2024 International Mechanical Code® (IMC®) and the 2024 International Plumbing Code® (IPC®), users will be able to validate the authenticity of their book and register it with the ICC to receive incentives. Digital Codes Premium (codes.iccsafe.org) provides advanced features and exclusive content to enhance code compliance. To validate and register, the user will tap the ICC tag (pictured here and located on the front cover) with a near-field communication (NFC) compatible device. Visit iccsafe.org/nfc for more information and troubleshooting tips regarding NFC tag technology.
ABOUT THE I-CODES The 2024 I-Codes, published by the ICC, are 15 fully compatible titles intended to establish provisions that adequately protect public health, safety and welfare; that do not unnecessarily increase construction costs; that do not restrict the use of new materials, products or methods of construction; and that do not give preferential treatment to particular types or classes of materials, products or methods of construction.The I-Codes are updated on a 3-year cycle to allow for new construction methods and technologies to be incorporated into the codes. Alternative materials, designs and methods not specifically addressed in the I-Code can be approved by the building official where the proposed materials, designs or methods comply with the intent of the provisions of the code.The I-Codes are used as the basis of laws and regulations in communities across the US and in other countries. They are also used in a variety of nonregulatory settings, including: Voluntary compliance programs. The insurance industry. Certification and credentialing for building design, construction and safety professionals. Certification of building and construction-related products. Facilities management. “Best practices” benchmarks for designers and builders. College, university and professional school textbooks and curricula. Reference works related to building design and construction.
Code Development Process
The code development process regularly provides an international forum for building professionals to discuss requirements for building design, construction methods, safety, performance, technological advances and new products. Proposed changes to the I-Codes, submitted by code enforcement officials, industry representatives, design professionals and other interested parties, are deliberated through an open code development process in which all interested and affected parties may participate.Openness, transparency, balance, due process and consensus are the guiding principles of both the ICC Code Development Process and OMB Circular A-119, which governs the federal government’s use of private-sector standards. The ICC process is open to anyone without cost. Remote participation is available through cdpAccess®, the ICC’s cloud-based app.In order to ensure that organizations with a direct and material interest in the codes have a voice in the process, the ICC has developed partnerships with key industry segments that support the ICC’s important public safety mission. Some code development committee members were nominated by the following industry partners and approved by the ICC Board: American Gas Association (AGA) American Institute of Architects (AIA) American Society of Plumbing Engineers (ASPE) International Association of Fire Chiefs (IAFC) National Association of Home Builders (NAHB) National Association of State Fire Marshals (NASFM) National Council of Structural Engineers Association (NCSEA) National Multifamily Housing Council (NMHC) Plumbing Heating and Cooling Contractors (PHCC) Pool and Hot Tub Alliance (PHTA) formerly The Association of Pool and Spa Professionals (APSP) Code development committees evaluate and make recommendations regarding proposed changes to the codes. Their recommendations are then subject to public comment and council-wide votes. The ICC’s governmental members—public safety officials who have no financial or business interest in the outcome—cast the final votes on proposed changes.The I-Codes are subject to change through future code development cycles and by any governmental entity that enacts the code into law. For more information regarding the code development process, contact the Codes and Standards Development Department of the ICC at iccsafe.org/products-and-services/i-codes/code-development/.While the I-Code development procedure is thorough and comprehensive, the ICC, its members and those participating in the development of the codes expressly disclaim any liability resulting from the publication or use of the I-Codes, or from compliance or noncompliance with their provisions. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, IMPLIED, EXPRESSED OR STATUTORY, IS GIVEN WITH RESPECT TO THE I-CODES. The ICC does not have the power or authority to police or enforce compliance with the contents of the I-Codes.
Code Development Committee Responsibilities (Letter Designations in Front of Section Numbers)
In each cycle, proposed changes are considered by the Code Development Committee assigned to a specific code or subject matter. Committee Action Hearings result in recommendations regarding a proposal to the voting membership. Where changes to a code section are not considered by that code’s own committee, the code section is preceded by a bracketed letter designation identifying a different committee. Bracketed letter designations for the I-Code committees are: [A] = Administrative Code Development Committee [BE] = IBC—Egress Code Development Committee [BF] = IBC—Fire Safety Code Development Committee [BG] = IBC—General Code Development Committee [BS] = IBC—Structural Code Development Committee [E] = Developed under the ICC’s Standard Development Process [EB] = International Existing Building Code Development Committee [F] = International Fire Code Development Committee [FG] = International Fuel Gas Code Development Committee [M] = International Mechanical Code Development Committee [P] = International Plumbing Code Development Committee [SP] = International Swimming Pool and Spa Code Development Committee For the development of the 2027 edition of the I-Codes, the ICC Board of Directors approved a standing motion from the Board Committee on the Long-Term Code Development Process to revise the code development cycle to incorporate two committee action hearings for each code group. This change expands the current process from two independent 1-year cycles to a single continuous 3-year cycle. There will be two groups of code development committees and they will meet in separate years. The current groups will be reworked. With the energy provisions of the International Energy Conservation Code® (IECC®) and Chapter 11 of the International Residential Code® (IRC®) now moved to the Code Council's Standards Development Process, the reduced volume of code changes will be distributed between Groups A and B.Code change proposals submitted for code sections that have a letter designation in front of them will be heard by the respective committee responsible for such code sections. Because different committees hold Committee Action Hearings in different years, proposals for most codes will be heard by committees in both the 2024 (Group A) and the 2025 (Group B) code development cycles. It is very important that anyone submitting code change proposals understands which code development committee is responsible for the section of the code that is the subject of the code change proposal.Please visit the ICC website at iccsafe.org/products-and-services/i-codes/code-development/current-code-development-cycle for further information on the Code Development Committee responsibilities as it becomes available.
Coordination of the I-Codes
The coordination of technical provisions allows the I-Codes to be used as a complete set of complementary documents. Individual codes can also be used in subsets or as stand-alone documents. Some technical provisions that are relevant to more than one subject area are duplicated in multiple model codes.
Italicized Terms
Words and terms defined in Chapter 2, Definitions, are italicized where they appear in code text and the Chapter 2 definitions apply. Although care has been taken to ensure applicable terms are italicized, there may be instances where a defined term has not been italicized or where a term is italicized but the definition found in Chapter 2 is not applicable. For example, Chapter 2 of the International Building Code® (IBC®) contains a definition for “Listed” that is applicable to equipment, products and services. The term “listed” is also used in that code to refer to a list of items within the code or within a referenced document. For the latter, the Chapter 2 definition would not be applicable.​
Adoption of International Code Council Codes and Standards
The International Code Council maintains a copyright in all of its codes and standards. Maintaining copyright allows the Code Council to fund its mission through sales of books in both print and digital format. The Code Council welcomes incorporation by reference of its codes and standards by jurisdictions that recognize and acknowledge the Code Council’s copyright in the codes and standards, and further acknowledge the substantial shared value of the public/private partnership for code development between jurisdictions and the Code Council. By making its codes and standards available for incorporation by reference, the Code Council does not waive its copyright in its codes and standardsThe Code Council’s codes and standards may only be adopted by incorporation by reference in an ordinance passed by the governing body of the jurisdiction. “Incorporation by reference” means that in the adopting ordinance, the governing body cites only the title, edition, relevant sections or subsections (where applicable), and publishing information of the model code or standard, and the actual text of the model code or standard is not included in the ordinance (see graphic, “Adoption of International Code Council Codes and Standards”). The Code Council does not consent to the reproduction of the text of its codes or standards in any ordinance. If the governing body enacts any changes, only the text of those changes or amendments may be included in the ordinance. The Code Council also recognizes the need for jurisdictions to make laws accessible to the public. Accordingly, all I-Codes and I-Standards, along with the laws of many jurisdictions, are available to view for free at codes.iccsafe.org/codes/i-codes. These documents may also be purchased, in both digital and print versions, at shop.iccsafe.org.For further information or assistance with adoption, including a sample ordinance, jurisdictions should contact the Code Council at incorporation@iccsafe.org.For a list of frequently asked questions (FAQs) addressing a range of foundational topics about the adoption of model codes by jurisdictions and to learn more about the Code Council’s code adoption resources, scan the QR code or visit iccsafe.org/code-adoption-resources.To facilitate adoption of the ICCPC, the jurisdiction must establish the following performance groups for new and/or existing use groups or specific buildings or facilities for the application of this code (see Chapter 3):
ALLOCATION OF USE AND OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATIONS AND SPECIFIC BUILDINGS OR FACILITIES TO PERFORMANCE GROUPS
PERFORMANCE GROUP
USE AND OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION OR SPECIFIC BUILDINGS OR FACILITIESI
I
II
III
IV
INTRODUCTION TO THE INTERNATIONAL PERFORMANCE CODE Internationally, the design and regulatory community has embraced the need for a code that emphasizes performance requirements rather than prescriptive requirements. This need is not unique to the international community. As such, the International Code Council Performance Code® for Buildings and Facilities (ICCPC®), in this 2024 edition, is designed to meet this need through model code regulations that safeguard the public health and safety in all communities, large and small.The ICCPC clearly defines the objectives for achieving the intended levels of occupant safety, property protection and community welfare. The code provides a framework to achieve the defined objectives in terms of tolerable levels of damage and magnitudes of design events, such as fire and natural hazards.The concepts covered by this code are not intended to be any different in scope than those covered by the 2024 edition of the I-Codes. However, this code is distinctly different from the other I-Codes, which, in many cases, direct the user to a single solution to address a safety concern for a building or facility. The ICCPC allows the user to achieve various solutions, systematically. It should be noted that the family of I-Codes provides solutions that will comply with the ICCPC. Conversely, this code provides a procedure to address design and review issues associated with the alternative materials and methods sections of the other I-Codes.It is strongly recommended that users of this code consult the User’s Guide located in the second portion of this publication to gain additional insight into the provisions of this code.
ARRANGEMENT AND FORMAT OF THE 2024 ICCPC The format of the ICCPC allows each chapter to be devoted to a particular subject. The following table shows how the ICCPC is divided. The chapter synopses detail the scope and intent of the provisions of the ICCPC.
CHAPTER TOPICS
CHAPTER
SUBJECTS
1
Scope and Administration
2
Definitions
3
Design Performance Levels
4
Reliability and Durability
5
Stability
6
Pedestrian Circulation
7
Safety of Users
8
Moisture
9
Interior Environment
10
Mechanical
11
Plumbing
12
Fuel Gas
13
Electricity
14
Energy Efficiency
15
Fire Prevention and Impact Management
16
Management of People
17
Emergency Access and Facilities
18
Emergency Responder Safety
19
Hazardous Materials
20
Referenced Standards
Appendix A
Risk Factors of Use and Occupancy Classifications
Appendix B
Worksheet for Assigning Specific Structures to Performance Groups
Appendix C
Individually Substantiated Design Method
Appendix D
Qualification Characteristics for Design and Review of Performance-Based Designs
Appendix E
Use of Computer Models
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration.
Chapter 1 contains administrative provisions such as intent, scope and requirements related to qualifications, documentation, review, maintenance and change of use or occupancy. Also, provisions for approving acceptable methods are provided.
Chapter 2 Definitions.
Chapter 2 is the repository of the definitions of terms used in the body of the code. The user of the code should be familiar with and consult this chapter because the definitions are essential to the correct interpretation of the code and because the user may not be aware that a term is defined.
Chapter 3 Design Performance Levels.
Chapter 3 sets the framework for determining the appropriate performance desired from a building or facility based on a particular event, such as an earthquake or a fire. Specifically, the user of the code can more easily determine the expected performance level of a building during an earthquake. In the prescriptive codes, the required performance is simply prescribed with no method provided to determine or quantify the level of the building’s or facility’s performance.
Chapter 4 Reliability and Durability.
Chapter 4 deals with the topics of reliability and durability and how these issues interact with the overall performance of a building or facility over its life. This issue has always been relevant to codes and standards but becomes more obvious when a performance code requires a designer to regard buildings as a system. Reliability includes redundancy, maintenance, durability, quality of installation, integrity of the design and, generally, the qualifications of those involved in this process.
Chapters 5 through 19 (technical provisions).
Chapters 5 through 19 address the technical provisions referred to in the preceding Chapter Topics table and provide topic-specific qualitative statements of intent that relate to current prescriptive code requirements. Generally, such topic-specific qualitative statements are the basic elements missing from prescriptive codes. The statements follow a particular hierarchy, described below.Objective. The objectives define what is expected in terms of societal goals or what society “demands” from buildings and facilities. Objectives are topic-specific and deal with particular aspects of performance required in a building, such as safeguarding people during escape and rescue.Functional Statement. The functional statement explains, in general terms, the function that a building must provide to meet the objective or what “supply” must be provided to meet the “demand.” For example, a building must be constructed to allow people adequate time to reach a place of safety without exposure to untenable conditions.Performance Requirement. Performance requirements are detailed statements that break down the functional statements into measurable terms. This is where a link can be more readily made to acceptable methods.
Chapter 20 Referenced Standards.
Chapter 20 lists all of the product and installation standards and codes that are referenced throughout Chapters 1 through 19 and includes identification of the promulgators and the section numbers in which the standards and codes are referenced. These standards and codes become an enforceable part of the code (to the prescribed extent of the reference) as if printed in the body of the code.
Appendices A through E.
Appendices A through E relate to specific provisions of this code and are discussed within the User’s Guide as applicable.
GUIDE TO THE USE OF THE INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL PERFORMANCE CODE FOR BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES The following describes the procedural steps for new and existing buildings.Procedural Steps for New Buildings. The following process is an outline for a performance-based design for an entire project or in combination with a prescriptive approach. This procedure for performance-based design extends from design preparation through issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy. The steps are as follows:1.Preparation of a concept report in accordance with Section 102.3.4.2.1 by a qualified design professional.2.Design preparation by a design team headed by a qualified principal design professional.3.Coordination and verification via the principal design professional as a design team leader, with other design professionals, owners and contractors, when applicable.4.Submit plans and supporting documents to the code official that shall identify which portions of the design are performance based and which portions are based on the prescriptive code. The submittal must include deed restrictions proposed to cover future maintenance requirements and special conditions for the life of the building.5.Plan review is to be conducted by the code official staff when qualified for performance-based design.5.1.When staff is deemed not qualified for a proposed project, acquire qualified contract review services.5.2.Peer review is an optional approach for obtaining an additional review that is supplemental to the plan review.6.The code official verifies that applicable prescriptive code provisions and performance-based objectives are met. When special inspections are required, ensure that documentation is complete.7.The code official approves plans and issues a permit.8.The holder of the permit is responsible to construct in accordance with approved plans and documents.9.The code official ensures that qualified inspection services are provided and documented where required in accordance with the performance-based code and other applicable codes, and testing requirements are met as follows:9.1.Phase inspections (reference IBC and other I-Codes).9.2.Special inspection (reference IBC).9.3.Testing where required by design documents.9.4.Documentation that all requirements are met.10.Issue Certificate of Occupancy with applicable conditions, where required by the approved design documents. Procedural Steps for Existing Buildings. For significant remodeling, alterations and additions, the design professional shall:1.Examine applicable design documents, deed restrictions and maintenance requirements to determine building requirements where the original design is performance based in nature; prepare a concept report in accordance with Section 102.3.4.2.1.2.Any features based on a performance approach need to be clearly differentiated from features of a building or facility designed using a prescriptive approach.3.Verify compliance with the operations and maintenance manual.4.Prepare a report specifying impact and requirements for the proposed design.5.Prepare design documents based on applicable performance, prescriptive or combination of code provisions and specify which codes are applicable for each portion of the design, including any steps to correct identified deficiencies.6.Submit reports to the code official for review and acceptance, similar to procedural steps for a new building. For change of use with no proposed physical alteration, the design professional shall:1.Document existing building features and systems that impact fire or emergency performance.2.Verify compliance with the operations and maintenance manual.3.Prepare appropriate design fire scenarios pertinent to the building or facility and actual use, considering existing mitigation strategies and protection features.4.Evaluate performance against Section 304, Maximum Level of Impact or Damage to Be Tolerated.5.Prepare a report detailing impact; design and test systems to the objectives of this code.6.Submit for review and approval in accordance with Chapter 1. Flow Chart The following chart is provided to give guidance as to how the ICCPC is intended to work. Essentially, this chart walks the user through the steps of applying the code. These steps begin with understanding the administrative process and the objectives of the ICCPC and eventually determining the acceptable methods used to design, construct, test, inspect and maintain the building or facility.
RELOCATION OF CHAPTERS OR SECTIONS The following table indicates relocation of chapters and sections in the 2024 edition of the ICCPC from the 2021 edition.
RELOCATION
2024 LOCATION
2021 LOCATION
6 7, 19
7 8
8 9
9 10
10 11
11 12
12 13
13 14
14 15
15 Section 601, Section 602, 16, 17
16 18
17 20
18 21
19 22
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
•
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.