======================================================================
Appendix J Grading
======================================================================

Appendix J Grading - International Building Code (IBC)
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2024
International Building Code (IBC)
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2024 International Building Code (IBC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
I-Codes
/
2024 International Building Code (IBC)
Appendix J Grading
2024 International Building Code (IBC)
favorite_border
Version:
Aug 2024
Contents
Notes
Insights
Overview
Copyright
Preface
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Chapter 2 Definitions
Chapter 3 Occupancy Classification and Use
Chapter 4 Special Detailed Requirements Based on Occupancy and Use
Chapter 5 General Building Heights and Areas
Chapter 6 Types of Construction
Chapter 7 Fire and Smoke Protection Features
Chapter 8 Interior Finishes
Chapter 9 Fire Protection and Life Safety Systems
Chapter 10 Means of Egress
Chapter 11 Accessibility
Chapter 12 Interior Environment
Chapter 13 Energy Efficiency
Chapter 14 Exterior Walls
Chapter 15 Roof Assemblies and Rooftop Structures
Chapter 16 Structural Design
Chapter 17 Special Inspections and Tests
Chapter 18 Soils and Foundations
Chapter 19 Concrete
Chapter 20 Aluminum
Chapter 21 Masonry
Chapter 22 Steel
Chapter 23 Wood
Chapter 24 Glass and Glazing
Chapter 25 Gypsum Panel Products and Plaster
Chapter 26 Plastic
Chapter 27 Electrical
Chapter 28 Mechanical Systems
Chapter 29 Plumbing Systems
Chapter 30 Elevators and Conveying Systems
Chapter 31 Special Construction
Chapter 32 Encroachments Into the Public Right-Of-Way
Chapter 33 Safeguards During Construction
Chapter 34 Reserved
Chapter 35 Referenced Standards
Appendix A Employee Qualifications
Appendix B Board of Appeals
Appendix C Group U—Agricultural Buildings
Appendix D Fire Districts
[BE] Appendix E Supplementary Accessibility Requirements
Appendix F Rodentproofing
Appendix G Flood-Resistant Construction
Appendix H Signs
Appendix I Patio Covers
Appendix J Grading
Section J101 General
Section J102 Definitions
Section J103 Permits Required
Section J104 Permit Application and Submittals
Section J105 Inspections
Section J106 Excavations
Section J107 Fills
Section J108 Setbacks
Section J109 Drainage and Terracing
Section J110 Erosion Control
Section J111 Referenced Standards
Appendix K Administrative Provisions
Appendix L Earthquake Recording Instrumentation
Appendix M Tsunami-Generated Flood Hazards
Appendix N Replicable Buildings
[A] Appendix O Performance-Based Application
Appendix P Sleeping Lofts
Index
Content Updates—Version 2.0
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
Appendix J Grading
The provisions contained in this appendix are not mandatory unless specifically referenced in the adopting ordinance.
User notes:
About this appendix:
Appendix J provides standards for the grading of properties. The appendix also provides standards for the administration and enforcement of a grading program, including permit and inspection requirements. Appendix J was originally developed in the 1960s and used for many years in jurisdictions throughout the western United States. It is intended to provide consistent and uniform code requirements anywhere grading is considered an issue. Code development reminder:
Code change proposals to this appendix will be considered by the IBC—Structural Code Development Committee during the 2025 (Group B) Code Development Cycle.
Section J101 General
CDP
J101.1 Scope.
The provisions of this chapter apply to grading, excavation and earthwork construction, including fills and embankments. Where conflicts occur between the technical requirements of this chapter and the geotechnical report, the geotechnical report shall govern.
J101.2 Flood hazard areas.
CDP
Unless the applicant has submitted an engineering analysis, prepared in accordance with standard engineering practice by a registered design professional, that demonstrates the proposed work will not result in any increase in the level of the base flood, grading,excavation and earthwork construction, including fills and embankments, shall not be permitted in floodways that are in flood hazard areas established in Section 1612.3 or in flood hazard areas where design flood elevations are specified but floodways have not been designated.
Section J102 Definitions
J102.1 Definitions.
The following words and terms shall, for the purposes of this appendix, have the meanings shown herein. Refer to Chapter 2 of this code for general definitions.BENCH. A relatively level step excavated into earth material on which fill is to be placed.COMPACTION. The densification of a fill by mechanical means.CUT. See “Excavation.”DOWN DRAIN. A device for collecting water from a swale or ditch located on or above a slope, and safely delivering it to an approved drainage facility.EROSION. The wearing away of the ground surface as a result of the movement of wind, water or ice.EXCAVATION. The removal of earth material by artificial means, also referred to as a cut.FILL. Deposition of earth materials by artificial means.GRADE. The vertical location of the ground surface.GRADE, EXISTING. The grade prior to grading.GRADE, FINISHED. The grade of the site at the conclusion of all grading efforts.GRADING. An excavation or fill or combination thereof.KEY. A compacted fill placed in a trench excavated in earth material beneath the toe of a slope.SLOPE. An inclined surface, the inclination of which is expressed as a ratio of horizontal distance to vertical distance.TERRACE. A relatively level step constructed in the face of a graded slope for drainage and maintenance purposes.
Section J103 Permits Required
J103.1 Permits required.
Except as exempted in Section J103.2, grading shall not be performed without first having obtained a permit therefor from the building official. A grading permit does not include the construction of retaining walls or other structures.
J103.2 Exemptions.
INSIGHTS
A grading permit shall not be required for the following:1.Grading in an isolated, self-contained area, provided that the public is not endangered and that such grading will not adversely affect adjacent properties.2.Excavation for construction of a structure permitted under this code.3.Cemetery graves.4.Refuse disposal sites controlled by other regulations.5.Excavations for wells, or trenches for utilities.6.Mining, quarrying, excavating, processing or stock-piling rock, sand, gravel, aggregate or clay controlled by other regulations, provided that such operations do not affect the lateral support of, or significantly increase stresses in, soil on adjacent properties.7.Exploratory excavations performed under the direction of a registered design professional. Exemption from the permit requirements of this appendix shall not be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in violation of the provisions of this code or any other laws or ordinances of this jurisdiction. INSIGHTS (2)
Section J104 Permit Application and Submittals
J104.1 Submittal requirements.
In addition to the provisions of Section 105.3, the applicant shall state the estimated quantities of excavation and fill.
J104.2 Site plan requirements.
INSIGHTS
In addition to the provisions of Section 107, a grading plan shall show the existing grade and finished grade in contour intervals of sufficient clarity to indicate the nature and extent of the work and show in detail that it complies with the requirements of this code. The plans shall show the existing grade on adjacent properties in sufficient detail to identify how grade changes will conform to the requirements of this code. INSIGHTS (2)
J104.3 Geotechnical report.
A geotechnical report prepared by a registered design professional shall be provided. The report shall contain not less than the following: 1. The nature and distribution of existing soils. 2.Conclusions and recommendations for grading procedures.3.Soil design criteria for any structures or embankments required to accomplish the proposed grading.4.Where necessary, slope stability studies, and recommendations and conclusions regarding site geology.Exception: A geotechnical report is not required where the building official determines that the nature of the work applied for is such that a report is not necessary.
J104.4 Liquefaction study.
INSIGHTS
For sites with maximum considered earthquake spectral response accelerations at short periods (Ss) greater than 0.5g as determined by Chapter 11 of ASCE/SEI 7, a study of the liquefaction potential of the site shall be provided and the recommendations incorporated in the plans.Exception: A liquefaction study is not required where the building official determines from established local data that the liquefaction potential is low. INSIGHTS (2)
Section J105 Inspections
J105.1 General.
Inspections shall be governed by Section 110.
J105.2 Special inspections.
The special inspection requirements of Section 1705.6 shall apply to work performed under a grading permit where required by the building official.
Section J106 Excavations
J106.1 Maximum slope.
The slope of cut surfaces shall be not steeper than is safe for the intended use, and shall be not more than one unit vertical in two units horizontal (50 percent slope) unless the owner or the owner’s authorized agent furnishes a geotechnical report justifying a steeper slope.Exceptions: 1.A cut surface shall be permitted to be at a slope of 1.5 units horizontal to 1 unit vertical (67 percent slope) provided that all of the following are met:1.1.It is not intended to support structures or surcharges.1.2.It is adequately protected against erosion.1.3.It is not more than 8 feet (2438 mm) in height.1.4.It is approved by the building code official.1.5.Ground water is not encountered.2.A cut surface in bedrock shall be permitted to be at a slope of 1 unit horizontal to 1 unit vertical (100 percent slope).
Section J107 Fills
J107.1 General.
Unless otherwise recommended in the geotechnical report, fills shall comply with the provisions of this section.
J107.2 Surface preparation.
The ground surface shall be prepared to receive fill by removing vegetation, topsoil and other unsuitable materials, and scarifying the ground to provide a bond with the fill material.
J107.3 Benching.
Where existing grade is at a slope steeper than one unit vertical in five units horizontal (20 percent slope) and the depth of the fill exceeds 5 feet (1524 mm) benching shall be provided in accordance with Figure J107.3. A key shall be provided that is not less than 10 feet (3048 mm) in width and 2 feet (610 mm) in depth.
FIGURE J107.3 BENCHING DETAILS For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm.
J107.4 Fill material.
Fill material shall not include organic, frozen or other deleterious materials. Rock or similar irreducible material greater than 12 inches (305 mm) in any dimension shall not be included in fills.
J107.5 Compaction.
All fill material shall be compacted to 90 percent of maximum density as determined by ASTM D1557, Modified Proctor, in lifts not exceeding 12 inches (305 mm) in depth.
J107.6 Maximum slope.
The slope of fill surfaces shall be not steeper than is safe for the intended use. Fill slopes steeper than one unit vertical in two units horizontal (50 percent slope) shall be justified by a geotechnical report or engineering data.
Section J108 Setbacks
J108.1 General.
Cut and fill slopes shall be set back from the property lines in accordance with this section. Setback dimensions shall be measured perpendicular to the property line and shall be as shown in Figure J108.1, unless substantiating data is submitted justifying reduced setbacks.
FIGURE J108.1 DRAINAGE DIMENSIONS For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm.
J108.2 Top of slope.
The setback at the top of a cut slope shall be not less than that shown in Figure J108.1, or than is required to accommodate any required interceptor drains, whichever is greater.
J108.3 Slope protection.
Where required to protect adjacent properties at the toe of a slope from adverse effects of the grading, additional protection, approved by the building official, shall be included. Examples of such protection include but are not be limited to:1.Setbacks greater than those required by Figure J108.1.2.Provisions for retaining walls or similar construction.3.Erosion protection of the fill slopes.4.Provision for the control of surface waters.
Section J109 Drainage and Terracing
J109.1 General.
Unless otherwise recommended by a registered design professional, drainage facilities and terracing shall be provided in accordance with the requirements of this section.Exception: Drainage facilities and terracing need not be provided where the ground slope is not steeper than one unit vertical in three units horizontal (33 percent slope).
J109.2 Terraces.
Terraces not less than 6 feet (1829 mm) in width shall be established at not more than 30-foot (9144 mm) vertical intervals on all cut or fill slopes to control surface drainage and debris. Suitable access shall be provided to allow for cleaning and maintenance.Where more than two terraces are required, one terrace, located at approximately mid-height, shall be not less than 12 feet (3658 mm) in width.Swales or ditches shall be provided on terraces. They shall have a minimum gradient of one unit vertical in 20 units horizontal (5- percent slope) and shall be paved with concrete not less than 3 inches (76 mm) in thickness, or with other materials suitable to the application. They shall have a depth not less than 12 inches (305 mm) and a width not less than 5 feet (1524 mm).A single run of swale or ditch shall not collect runoff from a tributary area exceeding 13,500 square feet (1256 m2) (projected) without discharging into a down drain.
J109.3 Interceptor drains.
Interceptor drains shall be installed along the top of cut slopes receiving drainage from a tributary width greater than 40 feet (12 192 mm), measured horizontally. They shall have a minimum depth of 1 foot (305 mm) and a minimum width of 3 feet (915 mm). The slope shall be approved by the building official, but shall be not less than one unit vertical in 50 units horizontal (2 percent slope). The drain shall be paved with concrete not less than 3 inches (76 mm) in thickness, or by other materials suitable to the application. Discharge from the drain shall be accomplished in a manner to prevent erosion and shall be approved by the building official .
J109.4 Drainage across property lines.
Drainage across property lines shall not exceed that which existed prior to grading. Excess or concentrated drainage shall be contained on site or directed to an approved drainage facility. Erosion of the ground in the area of discharge shall be prevented by installation of nonerosive down drains or other devices.
Section J110 Erosion Control
J110.1 General.
The faces of cut and fill slopes shall be prepared and maintained to control erosion. This control shall be permitted to consist of effective planting.Exception: Erosion control measures need not be provided on cut slopes not subject to erosion due to the erosion-resistant character of the materials. Erosion control for the slopes shall be installed as soon as practicable and prior to calling for final inspection.
J110.2 Other devices.
Where necessary, check dams, cribbing, riprap or other devices or methods shall be employed to control erosion and provide safety.
Section J111 Referenced Standards
J111.1 General.
See Table J111.1 for standards that are referenced in various sections of this appendix. Standards are listed by the standard identification with the effective date, standard title, and the section or sections of this appendix that reference the standard.
TABLE J111.1 REFERENCED STANDARDS
STANDARD ACRONYM
STANDARD NAME
SECTIONS HEREIN REFERENCED
ASTM D1557—12(2021)
Test Methods for Laboratory Compaction Characteristics of Soil Using Modified Effort [56,000 ft-lbf/ft3(2,700 kN-m/m3)]
J107.5
ASCE/SEI 7—22 Minimum Design Loads and Associated Criteria for Buildings and Other Structures with Supplement No. 1
J104.4
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
I-Codes • 2024
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.