======================================================================
Chapter 33 Safeguards During Construction
======================================================================

Chapter 33 Safeguards During Construction - International Building Code (IBC)
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2024
International Building Code (IBC)
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2024 International Building Code (IBC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
I-Codes
/
2024 International Building Code (IBC)
Chapter 33 Safeguards During Construction
2024 International Building Code (IBC)
favorite_border
Version:
Aug 2024
Contents
Notes
Insights
Overview
Copyright
Preface
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Chapter 2 Definitions
Chapter 3 Occupancy Classification and Use
Chapter 4 Special Detailed Requirements Based on Occupancy and Use
Chapter 5 General Building Heights and Areas
Chapter 6 Types of Construction
Chapter 7 Fire and Smoke Protection Features
Chapter 8 Interior Finishes
Chapter 9 Fire Protection and Life Safety Systems
Chapter 10 Means of Egress
Chapter 11 Accessibility
Chapter 12 Interior Environment
Chapter 13 Energy Efficiency
Chapter 14 Exterior Walls
Chapter 15 Roof Assemblies and Rooftop Structures
Chapter 16 Structural Design
Chapter 17 Special Inspections and Tests
Chapter 18 Soils and Foundations
Chapter 19 Concrete
Chapter 20 Aluminum
Chapter 21 Masonry
Chapter 22 Steel
Chapter 23 Wood
Chapter 24 Glass and Glazing
Chapter 25 Gypsum Panel Products and Plaster
Chapter 26 Plastic
Chapter 27 Electrical
Chapter 28 Mechanical Systems
Chapter 29 Plumbing Systems
Chapter 30 Elevators and Conveying Systems
Chapter 31 Special Construction
Chapter 32 Encroachments Into the Public Right-Of-Way
Chapter 33 Safeguards During Construction
Section 3301 General
[F] Section 3302 Owner’s Responsibility for Fire Protection
Section 3303 Demolition
Section 3304 Site Work
Section 3305 Sanitary
Section 3306 Protection of Pedestrians
Section 3307 Protection of Adjacent Property
Section 3308 Temporary Use of Streets, Alleys and Public Property
Section 3309 Fire Extinguishers
Section 3310 Means of Egress
Section 3311 Standpipes
Section 3312 Automatic Sprinkler System
Section 3313 Water Supply for Fire Protection
Section 3314 Fire Watch During Construction
Chapter 34 Reserved
Chapter 35 Referenced Standards
Appendix A Employee Qualifications
Appendix B Board of Appeals
Appendix C Group U—Agricultural Buildings
Appendix D Fire Districts
[BE] Appendix E Supplementary Accessibility Requirements
Appendix F Rodentproofing
Appendix G Flood-Resistant Construction
Appendix H Signs
Appendix I Patio Covers
Appendix J Grading
Appendix K Administrative Provisions
Appendix L Earthquake Recording Instrumentation
Appendix M Tsunami-Generated Flood Hazards
Appendix N Replicable Buildings
[A] Appendix O Performance-Based Application
Appendix P Sleeping Lofts
Index
Content Updates—Version 2.0
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
Chapter 33 Safeguards During Construction
User notes:
About this chapter:
While the balance of the chapters in this code specify how a building is to be designed and constructed in order to be in compliance with the code, Chapter 33 looks to the actual construction process. Parameters are provided for demolition and for protecting adjacent property during demolition and construction. This chapter also addresses the need for a fire watch during nonworking hours for certain buildings once the construction has progressed significantly. Issues such as how to provide egress while the building is growing, the timing of standpipe and sprinkler installation, and protection of pedestrians are addressed. Code development reminder:
Code change proposals to sections preceded by the designation [F] will be considered by a code development committee meeting during the 2024 (Group A) Code Development Cycle. All other code change proposals will be considered by a code development committee meeting during the 2025 (Group B) Code Development Cycle.
Section 3301 General
CDP
3301.1 Scope.
CDP
INSIGHTS
The provisions of this chapter shall govern safety during construction and the protection of adjacent public and private properties. Fire safety during construction shall also comply with the applicable provisions of Chapter 33 of the International Fire Code. INSIGHTS (2)
3301.2 Storage and placement of construction equipment and materials.
INSIGHTS
Construction equipment and materials shall be stored and placed so as not to endanger the public, the workers or adjoining property for the duration of the construction project. INSIGHTS (2)
[BS] 3301.3 Roof loads.
CDP
INSIGHTS
Structural roof components shall be capable of supporting the roof-covering system and the material and equipment loads that will be encountered during installation of the system. INSIGHTS (2)
3301.4 Maintenance of exits, existing structural elements, fire protection devices and sanitary safeguards.
INSIGHTS
Required exits, existing structural elements, fire protection devices and sanitary safeguards shall be maintained at all times during alterations, repairs or additions to any building or structure.Exceptions:
1.Where such required elements or devices are being altered or repaired, adequate substitute provisions shall be made.2.Maintenance of such elements and devices is not required where the existing building is not occupied. INSIGHTS (2)
3301.5
Removal of waste materials
INSIGHTS
Waste materials shall be removed in a manner that prevents injury or damage to persons, adjacent properties and public rights-of-way. INSIGHTS (2)
[F] Section 3302 Owner’s Responsibility for Fire Protection
INSIGHTS
INSIGHTS (2)
[F] 3302.1 Site safety plan.
INSIGHTS
The owner or owner’s authorized agent shall be responsible for the development, implementation and maintenance of an approved, written site safety plan establishing a fire prevention program at the project site applicable throughout all phases of the construction, repair, alteration or demolition work. The plan shall be submitted and approved before a building permit is issued. Any changes to the plan shall address the requirements of this chapter and other applicable portions of the International Fire Code, the duties of staff and staff training requirements. The plan shall be submitted for approval in accordance with the International Fire Code.
INSIGHTS (2)
[F] 3302.1.1
Components of site safety plans.
CDP
INSIGHTS
Site safety plans shall include the following, as applicable:
1.
Name and contact information of site safety director.
2.
Documentation of the training of the site safety director and fire watch personnel.
3.
Procedures for reporting emergencies.
4.
Fire department vehicle access routes.
5.
Location of fire protection equipment, including portable fire extinguishers, standpipes, fire department connections and fire hydrants.
6.
Smoking and cooking policies, designated areas to be used where approved, and signage locations in accordance with the International Fire Code.
7.
Location and safety considerations for temporary heating equipment.
8.
Hot-work permit plan.
9.
Plans for control of combustible waste material.
10.
Locations and methods for storage and use of flammable and combustible liquids and other hazardous materials.
11.
Provisions for site security and, where required, for a fire watch.
12.
Changes that affect this plan.
13.
Other site-specific information required by the International Fire Code.
INSIGHTS (2)
[F] 3302.2 Site safety director.
INSIGHTS
The owner shall designate a person to be the site safety director. The site safety director shall be responsible for ensuring compliance with the site safety plan. The site safety director shall have the authority to enforce the provisions of this chapter and other provisions as necessary to secure the intent of this chapter. Where guard service is provided in accordance with the International Fire Code, the site safety director shall be responsible for the guard service.
INSIGHTS (2)
[F] 3302.3
Daily fire safety inspection.
INSIGHTS
The site safety director shall be responsible for the completion of a daily fire safety inspection at the project site. Each day, all building and outdoor areas shall be inspected to ensure compliance with the inspection list in this section. The results of each inspection shall be documented and maintained on-site until a certificate of occupancy has been issued. Documentation shall be immediately available for on-site inspection and review.
1. Any contractors entering the site to perform hot work each day have been instructed in the hot work safety requirements in the International Fire Code, and hot work is performed only in areas approved by the site safety director.
2. Temporary heating equipment is maintained away from combustible materials in accordance with the equipment manufacturer’s instructions.
3. Combustible debris, rubbish and waste material is removed from the building in areas where work is not being performed.
4. Temporary wiring does not have exposed conductors.
5. Flammable liquids and other hazardous materials are stored in locations that have been approved by the site safety director when not involved in work that is being performed.
6. Fire apparatus access roads required by the International Fire Code are maintained clear of obstructions that reduce the width of the usable roadway to less than 20 feet (6096 mm).
7.
Fire hydrants are clearly visible from access roads and are not obstructed.
8.
The location of fire department connections to standpipe and in-service sprinkler systems are clearly identifiable from the access road and such connections are not obstructed.
9.
Standpipe systems are in service and continuous to the highest work floor, as specified in Section 3311.
10.
Portable fire extinguishers are available in locations required by Section 3309 and for roofing operations in accordance with the International Fire Code.
11.
Where a fire watch is required, fire watch records complying with the International Fire Code are up-to-date.
INSIGHTS (2)
[F] 3302.3.1 Violations.
INSIGHTS
Failure to properly conduct, document and maintain documentation required by this section shall constitute an unlawful act in accordance with Section 114.1 and shall result in the issuance of a notice of violation to the site safety director in accordance with Section 114.2. Upon the third offense, the building official is authorized to issue a stop work order in accordance with Section 115, and work shall not resume until satisfactory assurances of future compliance have been presented to and approved by the building official.
INSIGHTS (2)
Section 3303 Demolition
3303.1 Construction documents.
Construction documents and a schedule for demolition shall be submitted where required by the building official. Where such information is required, work shall not be done until such construction documents or schedule, or both, are approved.
3303.2 Pedestrian protection.
The work of demolishing any building shall not be commenced until pedestrian protection is in place as required by this chapter.
3303.3 Means of egress.
A horizontal exit shall not be destroyed unless and until a substitute means of egress has been provided and approved.
3303.4 Vacant lot.
Where a structure has been demolished or removed, the vacant lot shall be filled and maintained to the existing grade or in accordance with the ordinances of the jurisdiction having authority.
3303.5 Water accumulation.
INSIGHTS
Provision shall be made to prevent the accumulation of water or damage to any foundations on the premises or on adjacent property. INSIGHTS (2)
3303.6 Utility connections.
Service utility connections shall be discontinued and capped in accordance with the approved rules and the requirements of the applicable governing authority.
[F] 3303.7 Fire safety during demolition.
Fire safety during demolition shall comply with the applicable requirements of this code and the applicable provisions of Chapter 33 of the International Fire Code.
Section 3304 Site Work
3304.1 Excavation and fill.
Excavation and fill for buildings and structures shall be constructed or protected so as not to endanger life or property. Stumps and roots shall be removed from the soil to a depth of not less than 12 inches (305 mm) below the surface of the ground in the area to be occupied by the building. Wood forms that have been used in placing concrete, if within the ground or between foundation sills and the ground, shall be removed before a building is occupied or used for any purpose. Before completion, loose or casual wood shall be removed from direct contact with the ground under the building.
3304.1.1 Slope limits.
CDP
Slopes for permanent fill shall be not steeper than one unit vertical in two units horizontal (50 percent slope). Cut slopes for permanent excavations shall be not steeper than one unit vertical in two units horizontal (50 percent slope). Deviation from the foregoing limitations for cut slopes shall be permitted only upon the presentation of a soil investigation report acceptable to the building official.
3304.1.2 Surcharge.
Fill or other surcharge loads shall not be placed adjacent to any building or structure unless such building or structure is capable of withstanding the additional loads caused by the fill or surcharge. Existing footings or foundations that can be affected by any excavation shall be underpinned adequately or otherwise protected against settlement and shall be protected against lateral movement.
3304.1.3 Footings on adjacent slopes.
For footings on adjacent slopes, see Chapter 18.
3304.1.4 Fill supporting foundations.
Fill to be used to support the foundations of any building or structure shall comply with Section 1804.6. Special inspections of compacted fill shall be in accordance with Section 1705.6.
Section 3305 Sanitary
3305.1 Facilities required.
Sanitary facilities shall be provided during construction, remodeling or demolition activities in accordance with the International Plumbing Code.
Section 3306 Protection of Pedestrians
[BS] 3306.1 Protection required.
Pedestrians shall be protected during construction, remodeling and demolition activities as required by this chapter and Table 3306.1. Signs shall be provided to direct pedestrian traffic.
TABLE 3306.1 PROTECTION OF PEDESTRIANS
HEIGHT OF CONSTRUCTION
DISTANCE FROM CONSTRUCTION TO LOT LINE
TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED
8 feet or less Less than 5 feet Construction railings
5 feet or more None
More than 8 feet Less than 5 feet Barrier and covered walkway
5 feet or more, but not more than one-fourth the height of construction Barrier and covered walkway
5 feet or more, but between one-fourth and one-half the height of construction Barrier
5 feet or more, but exceeding one-half the height of construction None
For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm.
[BS] 3306.2 Walkways.
A walkway shall be provided for pedestrian travel in front of every construction and demolition site unless the applicable governing authority authorizes the sidewalk to be fenced or closed. A walkway shall be provided for pedestrian travel that leads from a building entrance or exit of an occupied structure to a public way. Walkways shall be of sufficient width to accommodate the pedestrian traffic, but shall be not less than 4 feet (1219 mm) in width. Walkways shall be provided with a durable walking surface. Walkways shall be accessible in accordance with Chapter 11 and shall be designed to support all imposed loads, and the design live load shall be not less than 150 pounds per square foot (psf) (7.2 kN/m2).
[BS] 3306.3 Directional barricades.
Pedestrian traffic shall be protected by a directional barricade where the walkway extends into the street. The directional barricade shall be of sufficient size and construction to direct vehicular traffic away from the pedestrian path.
[BS] 3306.4 Construction railings.
Construction railings shall be not less than 42 inches (1067 mm) in height and shall be sufficient to direct pedestrians around construction areas.
[BS] 3306.5 Barriers.
Barriers shall be not less than 8 feet (2438 mm) in height and shall be placed on the side of the walkway nearest the construction. Barriers shall extend the entire length of the construction site. Openings in such barriers shall be protected by doors that are normally kept closed.
[BS] 3306.6 Barrier design.
Barriers shall be designed to resist loads required in Chapter 16 unless constructed as follows:1.Barriers shall be provided with 2-inch by 4-inch (51 mm by 102 mm) top and bottom plates.2.The barrier material shall be boards not less than 3/4-inch (19.1 mm) thick or wood structural panels not less than 1/4-inch (6.4 mm) thick.3.Wood structural use panels shall be bonded with an adhesive identical to that for exterior wood structural use panels.4.Wood structural use panels 1/4 inch (6.4 mm) or 5/16 inch (23.8 mm) in thickness shall have studs spaced not more than 2 feet (610 mm) on center.5.Wood structural use panels 3/8 inch (9.5 mm) or 1/2 inch (12.7 mm) in thickness shall have studs spaced not more than 4 feet (1219 mm) on center provided that a 2-inch by 4-inch (51 mm by 102 mm) stiffener is placed horizontally at mid-height where the stud spacing is greater than 2 feet (610 mm) on center.6.Wood structural use panels 5/8 inch (15.9 mm) or thicker shall not span over 8 feet (2438 mm).
[BS] 3306.7 Covered walkways.
Covered walkways shall have a clear height of not less than 8 feet (2438 mm) as measured from the floor surface to the canopy overhead. Adequate lighting shall be provided at all times. Covered walkways shall be designed to support all imposed loads. The design live load shall be not less than 150 psf (7.2 kN/m2) for the entire structure.Exception: Roofs and supporting structures of covered walkways for new, light-frame construction not exceeding two stories above grade plane are permitted to be designed for a live load of 75 psf (3.6kN/m2) or the loads imposed on them, whichever is greater. In lieu of such designs, the roof and supporting structure of a covered walkway are permitted to be constructed as follows:1.Footings shall be continuous 2-inch by 6-inch (51 mm by 152 mm) members.2.Posts not less than 4 inches by 6 inches (102 mm by 152 mm) shall be provided on both sides of the roof and spaced not more than 12 feet (3658 mm) on center.3.Stringers not less than 4 inches by 12 inches (102 mm by 305 mm) shall be placed on edge upon the posts.4.Joists resting on the stringers shall be not less than 2 inches by 8 inches (51 mm by 203 mm) and shall be spaced not more than 2 feet (610 mm) on center.5.The deck shall be planks not less than 2 inches (51 mm) thick or wood structural panels with an exterior exposure durability classification not less than 23/32 inch (18.3 mm) thick nailed to the joists.6.Each post shall be knee braced to joists and stringers by members not less than 2 inches by 4 inches (51 mm by 102 mm); 4 feet (1219 mm) in length.7.A curb that is not less than 2 inches by 4 inches (51 mm by 102 mm) shall be set on edge along the outside edge of the deck.
[BS] 3306.8 Repair, maintenance and removal.
Pedestrian protection required by this chapter shall be maintained in place and kept in good order for the entire length of time pedestrians are subject to being endangered. The owner or the owner’s authorized agent, on completion of the construction activity, shall immediately remove walkways, debris and other obstructions and leave such public property in as good a condition as it was before such work was commenced.
[BS] 3306.9 Adjacent to excavations.
Every excavation on a site located 5 feet (1524 mm) or less from the street lot line shall be enclosed with a barrier not less than 6 feet (1829 mm) in height. Where located more than 5 feet (1524 mm) from the street lot line, a barrier shall be erected where required by the building official. Barriers shall be of adequate strength to resist wind pressure as specified in Chapter 16.
Section 3307 Protection of Adjacent Property
INSIGHTS
INSIGHTS (2)
[BS] 3307.1 Protection required.
INSIGHTS
Adjacent public and private property shall be protected from damage during construction, remodeling and demolition work. Protection shall be provided for footings, foundations, party walls, chimneys, skylights and roofs. Provisions shall be made to control water runoff and erosion during construction or demolition activities. The person making or causing an excavation to be made shall provide written notice to the owners of adjacent
property advising them that the excavation is to be made and that the adjacent
property should be protected. Said notification shall be delivered not less than 10 days prior to the scheduled starting date of the excavation. INSIGHTS (2)
[BS] 3307.2 Excavation retention systems.
INSIGHTS
Where a retention system is used to provide support of an excavation for protection of adjacent property or structures, the system shall conform to the requirements in Sections 3307.2.1 through 3307.2.3. INSIGHTS (2)
[BS] 3307.2.1 Excavation retention system design.
Excavation retention systems shall be designed by a registered design professional to provide vertical and lateral support.
[BS] 3307.2.2 Excavation retention system monitoring.
INSIGHTS
The retention system design shall include requirements for monitoring of the system and adjacent property or
structures for horizontal and vertical movement. INSIGHTS (2)
[BS] 3307.2.3 Retention system removal.
Elements of the system shall only be removed or decommissioned where adequate replacement support is provided by backfill or by the new structure. Removal or decommissioning shall be performed in such a manner that protects the adjacent property.
Section 3308 Temporary Use of Streets, Alleys and Public Property
3308.1 Storage and handling of materials.
The temporary use of streets or public property for the storage or handling of materials or of equipment required for construction or demolition, and the protection provided to the public shall comply with the provisions of the applicable governing authority and this chapter.
3308.1.1 Obstructions.
Construction materials and equipment shall not be placed or stored so as to obstruct access to fire hydrants, standpipes, fire or police alarm boxes, catch basins or manholes, nor shall such material or equipment be located within 20 feet (6096 mm) of a street intersection, or placed so as to obstruct normal observations of traffic signals or to hinder the use of public transit loading platforms.
3308.2 Utility fixtures.
Building materials, fences, sheds or any obstruction of any kind shall not be placed so as to obstruct free approach to any fire hydrant, fire department connection, utility pole, manhole, fire alarm box or catch basin, or so as to interfere with the passage of water in the gutter. Protection against damage shall be provided to such utility fixtures during the progress of the work, but sight of them shall not be obstructed.
Section 3309 Fire Extinguishers
[F] 3309.1 Where required.
Structures under construction, alteration or demolition shall be provided with not fewer than one approved portable fire extinguisher in accordance with Section 906 and sized for not less than ordinary hazard as follows:1.At each stairway on all floor levels where combustible materials have accumulated.2.In every storage and construction shed.3.Additional portable fire extinguishers shall be provided where special hazards exist, such as the storage and use of flammable and combustible liquids.
[F] 3309.2 Fire hazards.
The provisions of this code and the International Fire Code shall be strictly observed to safeguard against all fire hazards attendant upon construction operations.
Section 3310 Means of Egress
CDP
3310.1 Stairways required.
CDP
Where building construction exceeds 40 feet (12 192 mm) in height above the lowest level of fire department vehicle access, a temporary or permanent stairway shall be provided. As construction progresses, such stairway shall be extended to within one floor of the highest point of construction having secured decking or flooring.
[F] 3310.2 Maintenance of means of egress.
CDP
Means of egress and required accessible means of egress shall be maintained at all times during construction, demolition, remodeling or alterations and additions to any building.Exception: Existing means of egress need not be maintained where approved temporary means of egress systems and facilities are provided.
Section 3311 Standpipes
CDP
[F] 3311.1 Where required.
CDP
In buildings required to have standpipes by Section 905.3.1, not fewer than one standpipe shall be provided for use during construction. Such standpipes shall be installed prior to construction exceeding 40 feet (12 192 mm) in height above the lowest level of fire department vehicle access. Such standpipes shall be provided with fire department hose connections at locations adjacent to stairways complying with Section 3310.1. As construction progresses, such standpipes shall be extended to within one floor of the highest point of construction having secured decking or flooring.
[F] 3311.2 Buildings being demolished.
CDP
Where a building is being demolished and a standpipe exists within such a building, such standpipe shall be maintained in an operable condition so as to be available for use by the fire department. Such standpipe shall be demolished with the building but shall not be demolished more than one floor below the floor being demolished.
[F] 3311.3 Detailed requirements.
CDP
Standpipes shall be installed in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 9.Exception: Standpipes shall be either temporary or permanent in nature, and with or without a water supply, provided that such standpipes conform to the requirements of Section 905 as to capacity, outlets and materials.
Section 3312 Automatic Sprinkler System
CDP
[F] 3312.1 Completion before occupancy.
CDP
In buildings where an automatic sprinkler system is required by this code, it shall be unlawful to occupy any portion of a building or structure until the automatic sprinkler system installation has been tested and approved, except as provided in Section 111.3.
[F] 3312.2 Operation of valves.
CDP
Operation of sprinkler control valves shall be permitted only by properly authorized personnel and shall be accompanied by notification of duly designated parties. When the sprinkler protection is being regularly turned off and on to facilitate connection of newly completed segments, the sprinkler control valves shall be checked at the end of each work period to ascertain that protection is in service.
Section 3313 Water Supply for Fire Protection
[F] 3313.1 Where required.
CDP
An approved water supply for fire protection, either temporary or permanent, shall be made available as soon as combustible building materials arrive on the site, on commencement of vertical combustible construction, and on installation of a standpipe system in buildings under construction, in accordance with Sections 3313.2 through 3313.5.Exception: The fire code official is authorized to reduce the fire-flow requirements for isolated buildings or a group of buildings in rural areas or small communities where the development of full fire-flow requirements is impractical.
[F] 3313.2 Combustible building materials.
When combustible building materials of the building under construction are delivered to a site, a minimum fire flow of 500 gallons per minute (1893 L/m) shall be provided. The fire hydrant used to provide this fire flow supply shall be within 500 feet (152 m) of the combustible building materials, as measured along an approved fire apparatus access lane. Where the site configuration is such that one fire hydrant cannot be located within 500 feet (152 m) of all combustible building materials, additional fire hydrants shall be required to provide coverage in accordance with this section.
[F] 3313.3 Vertical construction of Types III, IV and V construction.
Prior to commencement of vertical construction of Type III, IV or V buildings that utilize any combustible building materials, the fire flow required by Sections 3313.3.1 through 3313.3.3 shall be provided, accompanied by fire hydrants in sufficient quantity to deliver the required fire flow and proper coverage.
[F] 3313.3.1 Fire separation up to 30 feet.
Where a building of Type III, IV or V construction has a fire separation distance of less than 30 feet (9144 mm) from property lot lines, and an adjacent property has an existing structure or otherwise can be built on, the water supply shall provide either a minimum of 500 gallons per minute (1893 L/m), or the entire fire flow required for the building when constructed, whichever is greater.
[F] 3313.3.2 Fire separation of 30 feet up to 60 feet.
Where a building of Type III, IV or V construction has a fire separation distance of 30 feet (9144 mm) up to 60 feet (18 288 mm) from property lot lines, and an adjacent property has an existing structure or otherwise can be built on, the water supply shall provide a minimum of 500 gallons per minute (1893 L/m), or 50 percent of the fire flow required for the building when constructed, whichever is greater.
[F] 3313.3.3 Fire separation of 60 feet or greater.
Where a building of Type III, IV or V construction has a fire separation of 60 feet (18 288 mm) or greater from a property lot line, a water supply of 500 gallons per minute (1893 L/m) shall be provided.
[F] 3313.4 Vertical construction, Types I and II construction.
If combustible building materials are delivered to the construction site, water supply in accordance with Section 3313.2 shall be provided. Additional water supply for fire flow is not required prior to commencing vertical construction of Type I and II buildings.
[F] 3313.5 Standpipe supply.
Regardless of the presence of combustible building materials, the construction type or the fire separation distance, where a standpipe is required in accordance with Section 3311, a water supply providing a minimum flow of 500 gallons per minute (1893 L/m) shall be provided. The fire hydrant used for this water supply shall be located within 100 feet (30 480 mm) of the fire department connection supplying the standpipe.
Section 3314 Fire Watch During Construction
[F] 3314.1 Fire watch during construction.
A fire watch shall be provided during nonworking hours for construction that exceeds 40 feet (12 192 mm) in height above the lowest adjacent grade at any point along the building perimeter, for new multistory construction with an aggregate area exceeding 50,000 square feet (4645 m2) per story or as required by the fire code official.
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
I-Codes • 2024
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.