======================================================================
Chapter 2 Definitions
======================================================================

Chapter 1 Scope And Administration - International Fuel Gas Code (IFGC)
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2024
International Fuel Gas Code (IFGC)
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2024 International Fuel Gas Code (IFGC) 2024 International Mechanical Code (IMC) 2024 International Plumbing Code (IPC) 2024 International Fire Code (IFC) 2024 International Residential Code (IRC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
I-Codes
/
2024 International Fuel Gas Code (IFGC)
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
2024 International Fuel Gas Code (IFGC)
favorite_border
Version:
Jun 2024
Contents
Notes
Insights
Overview
Copyright
Preface
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Part 1—Scope and Application Section 101 (IFGC) Scope and General Requirements
Section 102 (IFGC) Applicability
Part 2—Administration and Enforcement Section 103 (IFGC) Code Compliance Agency
Section 104 (IFGC) Duties and Powers of the Code Official
Section 105 (IFGC) Permits
Section 106 (IFGC) Construction Documents
Section 107 (IFGC) Notice of Approval
Section 108 (IFGC) Fees
Section 109 (IFGC) Service Utilities
Section 110 (IFGC) Temporary Uses, Equipment and Systems
Section 111 (IFGC) Inspections and Testing
[A] Section 112 (IFGC) Means of Appeals
Section 113 (IFGC) Violations
[A] Section 114 (IFGC) Stop Work Order
Chapter 2 Definitions
Chapter 3 General Regulations
Chapter 4 Gas Piping Installations
Chapter 5 Chimneys and Vents
Chapter 6 Specific Appliances
Chapter 7 Gaseous Hydrogen Systems
Chapter 8 Referenced Standards
Appendix A Sizing and Capacities of Gas Piping (IFGS)
Appendix B Sizing of Venting Systems Serving Appliances Equipped with Draft Hoods, Category I Appliances and Appliances Listed for Use with Type B Vents (IFGS)
Appendix C Recommended Procedure for Safety Inspection of an Existing Appliance Installation (IFGS)
Appendix D Board of Appeals (IFGC)
Index
Content Updates—Version 2
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
User notes:
About this chapter: Chapter 1 establishes the limits of applicability of the code and describes how the code is to be applied and enforced. Chapter 1 is in two parts: Part 1—Scope and Application and Part 2—Administration and Enforcement. Section 101 identifies what buildings, systems, appliances and equipment fall under its purview and references other International Codes as applicable. Standards and codes are scoped to the extent referenced. The code is intended to be adopted as a legally enforceable document and it cannot be effective without adequate provisions for its administration and enforcement. The provisions of Chapter 1 establish the authority and duties of the code official appointed by the authority having jurisdiction and also establish the rights and privileges of the design professional, contractor and property owner. Section 105 was revised and relocated to Section 104 for the 2024 edition. For clarity, the relocation marginal markings have not been included. For complete information, see the Relocations table in the Preface of this code. QR code use: A QR code is placed at the beginning of any section that has undergone technical revision. To see those revisions, scan the QR code with a smart device or enter the 7-digit code beneath the QR code at the end of the following URL: qr.iccsafe.org/ (see Formatting Changes to the 2024 International Codes for more information).
Part 1—Scope and ApplicationSection 101 (IFGC) Scope and General Requirements
[A] 101.1 Title.
These regulations shall be known as the Fuel Gas Code of [NAME OF JURISDICTION], hereinafter referred to as “this code.”
[A] 101.2 Scope.
CDP
This code shall apply to the installation of fuel-gas piping systems, Fuel gas appliances, gaseous hydrogen systems and related accessories in accordance with Sections 101.2.2 through 101.2.6.Exception: Detached one- and two-family dwellings and townhouses not more than three stories above grade plane in height with separate means of egress and their accessory structures not more than three stories above grade plane in height, shall comply with this code or the International Residential Code.
[A] 101.2.1 Appendices.
INSIGHTS
Provisions in the appendices shall not apply unless specifically adopted. INSIGHTS (2)
[A] 101.2.2 Gaseous hydrogen systems.
Gaseous hydrogen systems shall be regulated by Chapter 7.
[A] 101.2.3 Piping systems.
These regulations cover piping systems for natural gas with an operating pressure of 125 pounds per square inch gauge (psig) (862 kPa gauge) or less, and for LP-gas with an operating pressure of 20 psig (140 kPa gauge) or less, except as provided in Section 402.7. Coverage shall extend from the point of delivery to the outlet of the appliance shutoff valves. piping system requirements shall include design, materials, components, fabrication, assembly, installation, testing, inspection, operation and maintenance.
[A] 101.2.4 Gas appliances.
Requirements for gas appliances and related accessories shall include installation, combustion and ventilation air and venting and connections to piping systems.
[A] 101.2.5 Systems, appliances and equipment outside the scope.
This code shall not apply to the following:1.Portable LP-gas appliances and equipment of all types that is not connected to a fixed fuel piping system.2.Installation of farm appliances and equipment such as brooders, dehydrators, dryers and irrigation equipment.3.Raw material (feedstock) applications except for piping to special atmosphere generators.4.Oxygen-Fuel gas cutting and welding systems.5.Industrial gas applications using gases such as acetylene and acetylenic compounds, hydrogen, ammonia, carbon monoxide, oxygen and nitrogen.6.Petroleum refineries, pipeline compressor or pumping stations, loading terminals, compounding plants, refinery tank farms and natural gas processing plants.7.Integrated chemical plants or portions of such plants where flammable or combustible liquids or gases are produced by, or used in, chemical reactions.8.LP-gas installations at utility gas plants.9.Liquefied natural gas (LNG) installations.10.Fuel gas piping in power and atomic energy plants.11.Proprietary items of equipment, apparatus or instruments such as gas-generating sets, compressors and calorimeters.12.LP-gas equipment for vaporization, gas mixing and gas manufacturing.13.Temporary LP-gas piping for buildings under construction or renovation that is not to become part of the permanent piping system.14.Installation of LP-gas systems for railroad switch heating.15.Installation of hydrogen gas, LP-gas and compressed natural gas (CNG) systems on vehicles.16.Except as provided in Section 401.1.1, gas piping, meters, gas pressure regulators and other appurtenances used by the serving gas supplier in the distribution of gas, other than undiluted LP-gas.17.Building design and construction, except as specified herein.18.piping systems for mixtures of gas and air within the flammable range with an operating pressure greater than 10 psig (69 kPa gauge).19.Portable fuel cell appliances that are neither connected to a fixed piping system nor interconnected to a power grid.
[A] 101.2.6 Other fuels.
The requirements for the design, installation, maintenance, alteration and inspection of mechanical systems operating with fuels other than fuel gas shall be regulated by the International Mechanical Code.
[A] 101.3 Purpose.
INSIGHTS
The purpose of this code is to establish minimum requirements to provide a reasonable level of safety, health, property protection and general welfare by regulating and controlling the design, construction, installation, quality of materials, location, operation and maintenance or use of fuel gas
equipment or systems. INSIGHTS (2)
[A] 101.4 Severability.
If a section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this code is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this code.
Section 102 (IFGC) Applicability
[A] 102.1 General.
INSIGHTS
Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall govern. Where, in a specific case, different sections of this code specify different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most restrictive shall govern. INSIGHTS (1)
[A] 102.2 Existing installations.
INSIGHTS
Except as otherwise provided for in this chapter, a provision in this code shall not require the removal, alteration or abandonment of, nor prevent the continued utilization and maintenance of, existing installations lawfully in existence at the time of the adoption of this code. INSIGHTS (1)
[A] 102.2.1 Existing buildings.
INSIGHTS
Additions, alterations, renovations or repairs related to building or structural issues shall be regulated by the International Existing Building Code. INSIGHTS (1)
[A] 102.3 Maintenance.
Installations, both existing and new, and parts thereof shall be maintained in proper operating condition in accordance with the original design and in a safe condition. Devices or safeguards that are required by this code shall be maintained in compliance with the edition of the code under which they were installed. The owner or the owner’s authorized agent shall be responsible for maintenance of installations. To determine compliance with this provision, the code official shall have the authority to require an installation to be reinspected.
[A] 102.4 Additions, alterations or repairs.
Additions, alterations, renovations or repairs to installations shall conform to that required for new installations without requiring the existing installation to comply with all of the requirements of this code. Additions, alterations or repairs shall not cause an existing installation to become unsafe, hazardous or overloaded.Minor additions, alterations, renovations and repairs to existing installations shall meet the provisions for new construction, unless such work is done in the same manner and arrangement as was in the existing system, is not hazardous and is approved.
[A] 102.5 Change in occupancy.
CDP
It shall be unlawful to make a change in the occupancyof a structure that will subject the structure to the special provisions of this code applicable to the new occupancy without approval. The code official shall certify that such structure meets the intent of the provisions of law governing building construction for the proposed new occupancy and that such change of occupancy does not result in any hazard to the public health, safety or welfare.
[A] 102.6 Historic buildings.
The provisions of this code relating to the construction, alteration, repair, enlargement, restoration, relocation or moving of buildings or structures shall not be mandatory for existing buildings or structures identified and classified by the state or local jurisdiction as historic buildings where such buildings or structures are judged by the code official to be safe and in the public interest of health, safety and welfare regarding any proposed construction, alteration, repair, enlargement, restoration, relocation or moving of buildings.
[A] 102.7 Moved buildings.
Except as determined by Section 102.2, installations that are a part of buildings or structures moved into or within the jurisdiction shall comply with the provisions of this code for new installations.
[A] 102.8 Referenced codes and standards.
The codes and standards referenced in this code shall be those that are listed in Chapter 8 and such codes and standards shall be considered to be part of the requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each such reference and as further regulated in Sections 102.8.1 and 102.8.2.Exception: Where enforcement of a code provision would violate the conditions of the listing of the equipment or appliance, the conditions of the listing and the manufacturer’s installation instructions shall apply.
[A] 102.8.1 Conflicts.
Where conflicts occur between the provisions of this code and the referenced standards, the provisions of this code shall apply.
[A] 102.8.2 Provisions in referenced codes and standards.
Where the extent of the reference to a referenced code or standard includes subject matter that is within the scope of this code, the provisions of this code, as applicable, shall take precedence over the provisions in the referenced code or standard.
[A] 102.9 Requirements not covered by code.
INSIGHTS
Requirements necessary for the strength, stability or proper operation of an existing or proposed installation, or for the public safety, health and general welfare, not specifically covered by this code, shall be determined by the code official. INSIGHTS (1)
[A] 102.10 Other laws.
CDP
INSIGHTS
The provisions of this code shall not be deemed to nullify any provisions of local, state or federal law. INSIGHTS (1)
[A] 102.11 Application of references.
INSIGHTS
Reference to chapter section numbers, or to provisions not specifically identified by number, shall be construed to refer to such chapter, section or provision of this code. INSIGHTS (1)
Part 2—Administration and EnforcementSection 103 (IFGC) Code Compliance Agency
[A] 103.1 Creation of agency.
The [insert name of department] is hereby created and the official in charge thereof shall be known as the code official. The function of the agency shall be the implementation, administration and enforcement of the provisions of this code.
[A] 103.2 Appointment.
The code official shall be appointed by the chief appointing authority of the jurisdiction.
[A] 103.3 Deputies.
In accordance with the prescribed procedures of this jurisdiction and with the concurrence of the appointing authority, the code official shall have the authority to appoint a deputy code official, other related technical officers, inspectors and other employees. Such employees shall have powers as delegated by the code official.
Section 104 (IFGC) Duties and Powers of the Code Official
[A] 104.1 General.
The code official is hereby authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this code.
[A] 104.2 Determination of compliance.
The code official shall have the authority to determine compliance with this code, to render interpretations of this code and to adopt policies and procedures in order to clarify the application of its provisions. Such interpretations, policies and procedures:
1. Shall be in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code.
2. Shall not have the effect of waiving requirements specifically provided for in this code.
[A] 104.2.1 Listed compliance.
Where this code or a referenced standard requires equipment, materials, products or services to be listed and a listing standard is specified, the listing shall be based on the specified standard. Where a listing standard is not specified, the listing shall be based on an approved listing criteria. Listings shall be germane to the provision requiring the listing. Installation shall be in accordance with the listing and the manufacturer’s instructions, and where required to verify compliance, the listing standard and manufacturer’s instructions shall be made available to the code official.
[A] 104.2.2 Technical assistance.
To determine compliance with this code, the code official is authorized to require the owner or owner’s authorized agent to provide a technical opinion and report.
[A] 104.2.2.1 Cost.
A technical opinion and report shall be provided without charge to the jurisdiction.
[A] 104.2.2.2 Preparer qualifications.
The technical opinion and report shall be prepared by a qualified engineer, specialist, laboratory or specialty organization acceptable to the code official. The code official is authorized to require design submittals to be prepared by, and bear the stamp of, a registered design professional.
[A] 104.2.2.3 Content.
The technical opinion and report shall analyze the properties of the design, operation or use of the building or premises and the facilities and appurtenances situated thereon to identify and propose necessary recommendations.
[A] 104.2.2.4 Tests.
Where there is insufficient evidence of compliance with the provisions of this code, the code official shall have the authority to require tests as evidence of compliance. Test methods shall be as specified in this code or by other recognized test standards. In the absence of recognized test standards, the code official shall approve the testing procedures. Such tests shall be performed by a party acceptable to the code official.
[A] 104.2.3 Alternative materials, design and methods of construction and equipment.
The provisions of this code are not intended to prevent the installation of any material or to prohibit any design or method of construction not specifically prescribed by this code, provided that any such alternative is not specifically prohibited by this code and has been approved.
Exception:
Performance-based alternative materials, designs or methods of construction and equipment complying with the International Code Council Performance Code.
[A] 104.2.3.1 Approval authority.
An alternative material, design or method of construction shall be approved where the code official finds that the proposed alternative is satisfactory and complies with Sections 104.2.3 through 104.2.3.7, as applicable.
[A] 104.2.3.2 Application and disposition.
Where required, a request to use an alternative material, design or method of construction shall be submitted in writing to the code official for approval. Where the alternative material, design or method of construction is not approved, the code official shall respond in writing, stating the reasons the alternative was not approved.
[A] 104.2.3.3 Compliance with code intent.
An alternative material, design or method of construction shall comply with the intent of the provisions of this code.
[A] 104.2.3.4 Equivalency criteria.
An alternative material, design or method of construction shall, for the purpose intended, be not less than the equivalent of that prescribed in this code with respect to all of the following, as applicable:
1. Quality.
2. Strength.
3. Effectiveness.
4. Durability.
5. Safety, other than fire safety.
6. Fire safety.
[A] 104.2.3.5 Tests.
Tests conducted to demonstrate equivalency in support of an alternative material, design or method of construction application shall be of a scale that is sufficient to predict performance of the end use configuration. Tests shall be performed by a party acceptable to the code official.
[A] 104.2.3.5.1 Fire tests.
Tests conducted to demonstrate equivalent fire safety in support of an alternative material, design or method of construction application shall be of a scale that is sufficient to predict fire safety performance of the end use configuration. Tests shall be performed by a party acceptable to the code official.
[A] 104.2.3.6 Reports.
Supporting data, where necessary to assist in the approval of materials or assemblies not specifically provided for in this code, shall comply with Sections 104.2.3.6.1 and 104.2.3.6.2.
[A] 104.2.3.6.1 Evaluation reports.
Evaluation reports shall be issued by an approved agency, and use of the evaluation report shall require approval by the code official for the installation. The alternate material, design or method of construction and product evaluated shall be within the scope of the code official’s recognition of the approved agency. Criteria used for the evaluation shall be identified within the report and, where required, provided to the code official.
[A] 104.2.3.6.2 Other reports.
Reports not complying with Section 104.2.3.6.1 shall describe criteria, including but not limited to any referenced testing or analysis, used to determine compliance with code intent and justify code equivalence. The report shall be prepared by a qualified engineer, specialist, laboratory or specialty organization acceptable to the code official. The code official is authorized to require design submittals to be prepared by, and bear the stamp of, a registered design professional.
[A] 104.2.3.7 Peer review.
The code official is authorized to require submittal of a peer review report in conjunction with a request to use an alternative material, design or method of construction, prepared by a peer reviewer that is approved by the code official.
[A] 104.2.4 Modifications.
Where there are practical difficulties involved in carrying out the provisions of this code, the code official shall have the authority to grant modifications for individual cases, provided that the code official shall first find that one or more special individual reasons make the strict letter of this code impractical, that the modification is in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code, and that such modification does not lessen health, accessibility, life and fire safety or structural requirements. The details of the written request for and action granting modifications shall be recorded and entered in the files of the department of building safety.
[A] 104.2.4.1 Flood hazard areas.
The code official shall not grant modifications to any provision required in flood hazard areas as established by Section 1612.3 of the International Building Code unless a determination has been made that:
1. A showing of good and sufficient cause that the unique characteristics of the size, configuration or topography of the site render the elevation standards of Section 1612 of the International Building Code inappropriate. 2. A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship by rendering the lot undevelopable. 3. A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety or extraordinary public expense; cause fraud on or victimization of the public; or conflict with existing laws or ordinances. 4. A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief, considering the flood hazard. 5. Submission to the applicant of written notice specifying the difference between the design flood elevation and the elevation to which the building is to be built, stating that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced floor elevation, and stating that construction below the design flood elevation increases risks to life and property.
[A] 104.3 Applications and permits.
The code official shall receive applications, review construction documents and issue permits, inspect the premises for which such permits have been issued and enforce compliance with the provisions of this code.
[A] 104.3.1 Determination of substantially improved or substantially damaged existing buildings and structures in flood hazard areas.
For applications for reconstruction, rehabilitation, repair, alteration, addition or other improvement of existing buildings or structures located in flood hazard areas, the code official shall determine if the proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage. Where the code official determines that the proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage, and where required by this code, the code official shall require the building to meet the requirements of Section 1612 of the International Building Code or Section R306 of the International Residential Code, as applicable.
[A] 104.4 Right of entry.
Where it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of this code, or where the code official has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in a structure or on any premises a condition that is contrary to or in violation of this code that makes the structure or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the code official is authorized to enter the structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect or to perform the duties imposed by this code. If such structure or premises is occupied, the code official shall present credentials to the occupant and request entry. If such structure or premises is unoccupied, the code official shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner, the owner’s authorized agent or other person having charge or control of the structure or premises and request entry. If entry is refused, the code official shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
[A] 104.4.1 Warrant.
Where the code official has first obtained a proper inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, an owner, the owner’s authorized agent, occupant or person having charge, care or control of the structure or premises shall not fail or neglect, after a proper request is made as herein provided, to permit entry therein by the code official for the purposes of inspection and examination pursuant to this code.
[A] 104.5 Identification.
The code official shall carry proper identification when inspecting structures or premises in the performance of duties under this code.
[A] 104.6 Notices and orders.
The code official shall issue all necessary notices or orders to ensure compliance with this code. Notices of violations shall be in accordance with Section 113.
[A] 104.7 Official records.
The code official shall keep official records as required by Sections 104.7.1 through 104.7.5. Such official records shall be retained for not less than 5 years or for as long as the building or structure to which such records relate remains in existence, unless otherwise provided by other regulations.
[A] 104.7.1 Approvals.
A record of approvals shall be maintained by the code official and shall be available for public inspection during business hours in accordance with applicable laws.
[A] 104.7.2 Inspections.
The code official shall have the authority to conduct inspections, or shall accept reports of inspection by approved agencies or individuals. Reports of such inspections shall be in writing and be certified by a responsible officer of such approved agency or by the responsible individual. The code official shall keep a record of each inspection made, including notices and orders issued, showing the findings and disposition of each.
[A] 104.7.3 Code alternatives and modifications.
Application for alternative materials, design and methods of construction and equipment in accordance with Section 104.2.3; modifications in accordance with Section 104.2.4; and documentation of the final decision of the code official for either shall be in writing and shall be retained in the official records.
[A] 104.7.4 Tests.
The code official shall keep a record of tests conducted to comply with Sections 104.2.2.4 and 104.2.3.5.
[A] 104.7.5 Fees.
The code official shall keep a record of fees collected and refunded in accordance with Section 108.
[A] 104.8 Liability.
The code official, member of the board of appeals or employee charged with the enforcement of this code, while acting for the jurisdiction in good faith and without malice in the discharge of the duties required by this code or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not thereby be rendered personally liable, either civilly or criminally, and is hereby relieved from personal liability for any damage accruing to persons or property as a result of an act or by reason of any act or omission in the discharge of official duties.
[A] 104.8.1 Legal defense.
Any suit or criminal complaint instituted against any officer or employee because of an act performed by that officer or employee in the lawful discharge of duties and under the provisions of this code or other laws or ordinances implemented through the enforcement of this code shall be defended by legal representatives of the jurisdiction until the final termination of the proceedings. The code official or any subordinate shall not be liable for costs in an action, suit or proceeding that is instituted in pursuance of the provisions of this code.
[A] 104.9 Approved materials and equipment.
Materials, equipment and devices approved by the code official shall be constructed and installed in accordance with such approval.
[A] 104.9.1 Materials and equipment reuse.
Materials, equipment and devices shall not be reused unless such elements are in good working condition and approved.
Section 105 (IFGC) Permits
[A] 105.1 Where required.
An owner, owner’s authorized agent or contractor who desires to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert or replace an installation regulated by this code, or to cause such work to be performed, shall first make application to the code official and obtain the required permit for the work.Exception: Where appliance and equipment replacements and repairs are required to be performed in an emergency situation, the permit application shall be submitted within the next working business day of the Department of Inspection.
[A] 105.1.1 Annual permit.
Instead of an individual construction permit for each alteration to an already approved system or equipment installation, the code official is authorized to issue an annual permit upon application therefor to any person, firm or corporation regularly employing one or more qualified tradespersons in the building, structure or on the premises owned or operated by the applicant for the permit.
[A] 105.1.2 Annual permit records.
The person to whom an annual permit is issued shall keep a detailed record of alterations made under such annual permit. The code official shall have access to such records at all times or such records shall be filed with the code official as designated.
[A] 105.2 Permits not required.
Permits shall not be required for the following:1.Portable heating appliances.2.Replacement of any minor component of an appliance or equipment that does not alter approval of such appliance or equipment or make such appliance or equipment unsafe. Exemption from the permit requirements of this code shall not be deemed to grant authorization for work to be done in violation of the provisions of this code or of other laws or ordinances of this jurisdiction.
[A] 105.3 Application for permit.
Each application for a permit, with the required fee, shall be filed with the code official on a form furnished for that purpose and shall contain a general description of the proposed work and its location. The application shall be signed by the owner or an owner’s authorized agent. The permit application shall indicate the proposed occupancy of all parts of the building and of that portion of the site or lot, if any, not covered by the building or structure and shall contain such other information required by the code official.
[A] 105.3.1 Time limitation of application.
An application for a permit for any proposed work shall be deemed to have been abandoned 180 days after the date of filing, unless such application has been pursued in good faith or a permit has been issued; except that the code official shall have the authority to grant one or more extensions of time for additional periods not exceeding 180 days each. The extension shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause shall be demonstrated.
[A] 105.4 Preliminary inspection.
Before a permit is issued, the code official is authorized to inspect and evaluate the systems, equipment, buildings, devices, premises and spaces or areas to be used.
[A] 105.5 Permit issuance.
The application, construction documents and other data filed by an applicant for a permit shall be reviewed by the code official. If the code official finds that the proposed work conforms to the requirements of this code and all laws and ordinances applicable thereto, and that the fees specified in Section 108.1 have been paid, a permit shall be issued to the applicant.
[A] 105.5.1 Approved construction documents.
When the code official issues the permit where construction documents are required, the construction documents shall be endorsed in writing and stamped “APPROVED.” Such approved construction documents shall not be changed, modified or altered without authorization from the code official. Work shall be done in accordance with the approved construction documents.The code official shall have the authority to issue a permit for the construction of part of an installation before the construction documents for the entire installation have been submitted or approved, provided adequate information and detailed statements have been filed complying with all pertinent requirements of this code. The holder of such permit shall proceed at his or her own risk without assurance that the permit for the entire installation will be granted.
[A] 105.5.2 Validity.
The issuance of a permit or approval of construction documents shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction. A permit presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this code shall be invalid.The issuance of a permit based on construction documents and other data shall not prevent the code official from thereafter requiring the correction of errors in said construction documents and other data or from preventing building operations from being carried on thereunder where in violation of this code or of other ordinances of this jurisdiction.
105.5.3 Expiration.
Every permit issued by the code official under the provisions of this code shall expire by limitation and become null and void if the work authorized by such permit is not commenced within 180 days from the date of such permit, or is suspended or abandoned at any time after the work is commenced for a period of 180 days. Before such work recommences, a new permit shall be first obtained and the fee therefor shall be one-half the amount required for a new permit for such work, provided that changes have not been and will not be made in the original construction documents for such work, and further that such suspension or abandonment has not exceeded 1 year.
[A] 105.5.4 Extensions.
A permittee holding an unexpired permit shall have the right to apply for an extension of the time within which he or she will commence work under that permit when work is unable to be commenced within the time required by this section for good and satisfactory reasons. The code official shall extend the time for action by the permittee for a period not exceeding 180 days if there is reasonable cause. A permit shall not be extended more than once. The fee for an extension shall be one-half the amount required for a new permit for such work.
[A] 105.5.5 Suspension or revocation of permit.
The code official shall have the authority to suspend or revoke a permit issued under the provisions of this code wherever the permit is issued in error or on the basis of incorrect, inaccurate or incomplete information, or in violation of any ordinance or regulation or any of the provisions of this code.
[A] 105.5.6 Previous approvals.
This code shall not require changes in the construction documents, construction or designated occupancy of a structure for which a lawful permit has been heretofore issued or otherwise lawfully authorized, and the construction of which has been pursued in good faith within 180 days after the effective date of this code and has not been abandoned.
[A] 105.5.7 Posting of permit.
The permit or a copy shall be kept on the site of the work until the completion of the project.
Section 106 (IFGC) Construction Documents
[A] 106.1 Construction documents.
Construction documents, engineering calculations, diagrams and other data shall be submitted in two or more sets, or in a digital format where allowed by the building official, with each application for a permit. The code official shall require construction documents, computations and specifications to be prepared and designed by a registered design professional where required by state law. Construction documents shall be drawn to scale and shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the location, nature and extent of the work proposed and show in detail that the work conforms to the provisions of this code. Construction documents for buildings more than two stories in height shall indicate where penetrations will be made for installations and shall indicate the materials and methods for maintaining required structural safety, fire-resistance rating and fireblocking.Exception: The code official shall have the authority to waive the submission of construction documents, calculations or other data if the nature of the work applied for is such that reviewing of construction documents is not necessary to determine compliance with this code.
[A] 106.2 Retention of construction documents.
One set of approved construction documents shall be retained by the code official for a period of not less than 180 days from date of completion of the permitted work, or as required by state or local laws. One set of approved construction documents shall be returned to the applicant, and said set shall be kept on the site of the building or work at all times during which the work authorized thereby is in progress.
Section 107 (IFGC) Notice of Approval
[A] 107.1 Approval.
After the prescribed tests and inspections indicate that the work complies in all respects with this code, a notice of approval shall be issued by the code official.
[A] 107.2 Revocation.
The code official is authorized to, in writing, suspend or revoke a notice of approval issued under the provisions of this code wherever the notice is issued in error, or on the basis of incorrect information supplied or where it is determined that the building or structure, premise, or portion thereof is in violation of any ordinance or regulation or any of the provisions of this code.
Section 108 (IFGC) Fees
[A] 108.1 Payment of fees.
A permit shall not be valid until the fees prescribed by law have been paid. An amendment to a permit shall not be released until the additional fee, if any, has been paid.
[A] 108.2 Schedule of permit fees.
Where work requires a permit, a fee for each permit shall be paid as required, in accordance with the schedule as established by the applicable governing authority.
[A] 108.3 Permit valuations.
The applicant for a permit shall provide an estimated value of the work for which the permit is being issued at time of application. Such estimated valuations shall include total value of work, including materials and labor, for which the permit is being issued, such as plumbing equipmentand permanent systems. Where, in the opinion of the code official, the valuation is underestimated, the permit shall be denied unless the applicant can show detailed estimates acceptable to the code official. The code official shall have the authority to adjust the final valuation for permit fees.
[A] 108.4 Work commencing before permit issuance.
Any person who commences any work on a mechanical system before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to a fee established by the code official that shall be in addition to the required permit fees.
[A] 108.5 Related fees.
The payment of the fee for the construction, alteration, removal or demolition for work done in connection to or concurrently with the work authorized by a permit shall not relieve the applicant or holder of the permit from the payment of other fees that are prescribed by law.
[A] 108.6 Refunds.
The code official is authorized to establish a refund policy.
Section 109 (IFGC) Service Utilities
[A] 109.1 Connection of service utilities.
A person shall not make connections from a utility, source of energy, fuel or power to any building or system that is regulated by this code for which a permit is required until authorized by the code official.
[A] 109.2 Temporary connection.
The code official shall have the authority to authorize the temporary connection of the building or system to the utility, source of energy, fuel, power, water system or sewer system for the purpose of testing the installation or for use under a temporary approval.
[A] 109.3 Authority to disconnect service utilities.
The code official shall have the authority to authorize disconnection of utility service to the building, structure or system regulated by this code and the referenced codes and standards in case of emergency where necessary to eliminate an immediate hazard to life or property or where such utility connection has been made without the approval required by Section 111.1 or 111.2. The code official shall notify the serving utility, and wherever possible the owner or the owner’s authorized agent and occupant of the building, structure or service system, of the decision to disconnect prior to taking such action. If not notified prior to disconnecting, the owner, the owner’s authorized agent or occupant of the building, structure or service system shall be notified in writing, as soon as practical thereafter.
Section 110 (IFGC) Temporary Uses,
Equipment and Systems
[A] 110.1 General.
The code official is authorized to issue a permit for temporary uses, equipment
and systems. Such permits shall be limited as to time of service, but shall not be permitted for more than 180 days. The code official is authorized to grant extensions for demonstrated cause.
[A] 110.2 Conformance.
Temporary uses,
equipment
and systems shall conform to the requirements of this code as necessary to ensure health, safety and general welfare.
[A] 110.3 Temporary service utilities.
The code official is authorized to give permission to temporarily supply service utilities in accordance with Section 109.
[A] 110.4 Termination of approval.
The code official is authorized to terminate such permit for temporary uses, equipment or systems and to order the same to be discontinued.
Section 111 (IFGC) Inspections and Testing
[A] 111.1 General.
The code official is authorized to conduct such inspections as are deemed necessary to determine compliance with the provisions of this code. Construction or work for which a permit is required shall be subject to inspection by the code official, and such construction or work shall remain visible and able to be accessed for inspection purposes until approved. Approval as a result of an inspection shall not be construed to be an approval of a violation of the provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction. Inspections presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid.
[A] 111.2 Required inspections and testing.
The code official, on notification from the permit holder or the permit holder’s agent, shall make the following inspections and other such inspections as necessary, and shall either release that portion of the construction or notify the permit holder or the permit holder’s agent of violations that are required to be corrected. The holder of the permit shall be responsible for scheduling such inspections.1.Underground inspection shall be made after trenches or ditches are excavated and bedded, piping is installed and before backfill is put in place. Where excavated soil contains rocks, broken concrete, frozen chunks and other rubble that would damage or break the piping or cause corrosive action, clean backfill shall be on the job site.2.Rough-in inspection shall be made after the roof, framing, fireblocking and bracing are in place and components to be concealed are complete, and prior to the installation of wall or ceiling membranes.3.Final inspection shall be made upon completion of the installation. The requirements of this section shall not be considered to prohibit the operation of any heating appliance installed to replace an existing heating appliance serving an occupied portion of a structure in the event a request for inspection of such heating appliance has been filed with the department not more than 48 hours after replacement work is completed, and before any portion of such appliance is concealed by any permanent portion of the structure.
[A] 111.2.1 Other inspections.
In addition to the inspections specified in Section 111.2, the code official is authorized to make or require other inspections of any construction work to ascertain compliance with the provisions of this code and other laws that are enforced.
[A] 111.2.2 Inspection requests.
It shall be the duty of the holder of the permit or his or her duly authorized agent to notify the code official when work is ready for inspection. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to provide access to and means for inspection of such work that is required by this code.
[A] 111.2.3 Approval required.
Work shall not be done beyond the point indicated in each successive inspection without first obtaining the approval of the code official. The code official, upon notification, shall make the requested inspections and shall either indicate the portion of the construction that is satisfactory as completed, or notify the permit holder or his or her agent wherein the same fails to comply with this code. Any portions that do not comply shall be corrected and such portion shall not be covered or concealed until authorized by the code official.
[A] 111.2.4 Approved inspection agencies.
The code official is authorized to accept reports of approved agencies, provided that such agencies satisfy the requirements as to qualifications and reliability.
[A] 111.2.5 Evaluation and follow-up inspection services.
Prior to the approval of a prefabricated construction assembly having concealed work and the issuance of a permit, the code official shall require the submittal of an evaluation report on each prefabricated construction assembly, indicating the complete details of the installation, including a description of the system and its components, the basis on which the system is being evaluated, test results and similar information and other data as necessary for the code official to determine conformance to this code.
[A] 111.2.5.1 Evaluation service.
The code official shall designate the evaluation service of an approved agency as the evaluation agency, and review such agency’s evaluation report for adequacy and conformance to this code.
[A] 111.2.5.2 Follow-up inspection.
Except where ready access is provided to installations, appliances, service equipmentand accessories for complete inspection at the site without disassembly or dismantling, the code official shall conduct the in-plant inspections as frequently as necessary to ensure conformance to the approved evaluation report or shall designate an independent, approved inspection agency to conduct such inspections. The inspection agency shall furnish the code official with the follow-up inspection manual and a report of inspections upon request, and the installation shall have an identifying label permanently affixed to the system indicating that factory inspections have been performed.
[A] 111.2.5.3 Test and inspection records.
Required test and inspection records shall be available to the code official at all times during the fabrication of the installation and the erection of the building; or such records as the code official designates shall be filed.
[A] 111.3 Testing.
Installations shall be tested as required in this code and in accordance with Sections 111.3.1 through 111.3.3. Tests shall be made by the permit holder and observed by the code official.
[A] 111.3.1 New, altered, extended or repaired installations.
New installations and parts of existing installations, which have been altered, extended, renovated or repaired, shall be tested as prescribed herein to disclose leaks and defects.
[A] 111.3.2 Apparatus, instruments, material and labor for tests.
Apparatus, instruments, material and labor required for testing an installation or part thereof shall be furnished by the permit holder.
[A] 111.3.3 Reinspection and testing.
Where any work or installation does not pass an initial test or inspection, the necessary corrections shall be made so as to achieve compliance with this code. The work or installation shall then be resubmitted to the code official for inspection and testing.
[A] Section 112 (IFGC) Means of Appeals
[A] 112.1 General.
In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations made by the code official relative to the application and interpretation of this code, there shall be and is hereby created a board of appeals. The board of appeals shall be appointed by the applicable governing authority and shall hold office at its pleasure. The board shall adopt rules of procedure for conducting its business and shall render all decisions and findings in writing to the appellant with a duplicate copy to the code official.
[A] 112.2 Limitations on authority.
An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply or an equivalent or better form of construction is proposed. The board shall not have authority to waive requirements of this code.
[A] 112.3 Qualifications.
The board of appeals shall consist of members who are qualified by experience and training on matters pertaining to the provisions of this code and are not employees of the jurisdiction.
[A] 112.4 Administration.
The code official shall take action without delay in accordance with the decision of the board.
Section 113 (IFGC) Violations
[A] 113.1 Unlawful acts.
It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to erect, construct, alter, repair, remove, demolish or utilize an installation, or cause same to be done, in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of this code.
[A] 113.2 Notice of violation.
The code official shall serve a notice of violation or order to the person responsible for the erection, installation, alteration, extension, repair, removal or demolition of work in violation of the provisions of this code, or in violation of a detail statement or the approved construction documents thereunder, or in violation of a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code. Such order shall direct the discontinuance of the illegal action or condition and the abatement of the violation.
[A] 113.3 Prosecution of violation.
If the notice of violation is not complied with promptly, the code official shall request the legal counsel of the jurisdiction to institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to require the removal or termination of the unlawful occupancy of the structure in violation of the provisions of this code or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto.
[A] 113.4 Violation penalties.
Persons who shall violate a provision of this code, fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or erect, install, alter or repair work in violation of the approved construction documents or directive of the code official, or of a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a [SPECIFY OFFENSE], punishable by a fine of not more than [AMOUNT] dollars or by imprisonment not exceeding [NUMBER OF DAYS], or both such fine and imprisonment. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
[A] 113.5 Abatement of violation.
The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude the legal officer of the jurisdiction from instituting appropriate action to prevent unlawful construction, restrain, correct or abate a violation, prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises, or stop an illegal act, conduct, business or utilization of the installations on or about any premises.
[A] 113.6 Unsafe installations.
An installation that is unsafe, constitutes a fire or health hazard, or is otherwise dangerous to human life, as regulated by this code, is hereby declared an unsafe installation. Use of an installation regulated by this code constituting a hazard to health, safety or welfare by reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, fire hazard, disaster, damage or abandonment is hereby declared an unsafe use. Such unsafe installations are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal.
[A] 113.6.1 Authority to condemn installations.
Whenever the code official determines that any installation, or portion thereof, regulated by this code has become hazardous to life, health or property, he or she shall order in writing that such installations either be removed or restored to a safe condition. A time limit for compliance with such order shall be specified in the written notice. A person shall not use or maintain a defective installation after receiving such notice.Where such installation is to be disconnected, written notice as prescribed in Section 113.2 shall be given. In cases of immediate danger to life or property, such disconnection shall be made immediately without such notice.
[A] 113.6.2 Authority to disconnect service utilities.
The code official shall have the authority to require disconnection of utility service in accordance with Section 109.3.
[A] 113.6.3 Connection after order to disconnect.
A person shall not make energy source connections to installations regulated by this code that have been disconnected or ordered to be disconnected by the code official, or the use of which has been ordered to be discontinued by the code official until the code official authorizes the reconnection and use of such installations.Where an installation is maintained in violation of this code, and in violation of a notice issued pursuant to the provisions of this section, the code official shall institute appropriate action to prevent, restrain, correct or abate the violation.
[A] Section 114 (IFGC) Stop Work Order
[A] 114.1 Authority.
Where the code official finds any work regulated by this code being performed in a manner contrary to the provisions of this code or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, the code official is authorized to issue a stop work order.
[A] 114.2 Issuance.
The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, the owner’s authorized agent or the person performing the work. Upon issuance of a stop work order, the cited work shall immediately cease. The stop work order shall state the reason for the order and the conditions under which the cited work is authorized to resume.
[A] 114.3 Emergencies.
Where an emergency exists, the code official shall not be required to give a written notice prior to stopping the work.
[A] 114.4 Failure to comply.
Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to fines established by the authority having jurisdiction.
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
I-Codes • 2024
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.