======================================================================
Chapter 2 Definitions
======================================================================

Chapter 1 Scope And Administration - International Fire Code (IFC)
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2024
International Fire Code (IFC)
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2024 International Fire Code (IFC) 2024 International Residential Code (IRC) 2024 International Building Code (IBC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
I-Codes
/
2024 International Fire Code (IFC)
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
2024 International Fire Code (IFC)
favorite_border
Version:
Jun 2024
Contents
Notes
Insights
Overview
Copyright
Preface
Part I Administrative
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Part 1—General Provisions Section 101 Scope and General Requirements
Section 102 Applicability
Part 2—Administration and Enforcement Section 103 Code Compliance Agency
Section 104 Duties and Powers of the Fire Code Official
Section 105 Permits
Section 106 Construction Documents
Section 107 Temporary Structures, Uses, Equipment and Systems
Section 108 Fees
Section 109 Inspections
Section 110 Maintenance
Section 111 Service Utilities
Section 112 Means of Appeals
Section 113 Violations
Section 114 Stop Work Order
Section 115 Unsafe Structures or Equipment
Chapter 2 Definitions
Part II General Safety Provisions
Chapter 3 General Requirements
Chapter 4 Emergency Planning and Preparedness
Part III Building and Equipment Design Features
Chapter 5 Fire Service Features
Chapter 6 Building Services and Systems
Chapter 7 Fire and Smoke Protection Features
Chapter 8 Interior Finish, Decorative Materials and Furnishings
Chapter 9 Fire Protection and Life Safety Systems
Chapter 10 Means of Egress
Chapter 11 Construction Requirements for Existing Buildings
Chapter 12 Energy Systems
Chapters 13–19 Reserved
Part IV Special Occupancies and Operations
Chapter 20 Aviation Facilities
Chapter 21 Dry Cleaning
Chapter 22 Combustible Dust-Producing Operations
Chapter 23 Motor Fuel-Dispensing Facilities and Repair Garages
Chapter 24 Flammable Finishes
Chapter 25 Fruit and Crop Ripening
Chapter 26 Fumigation and Insecticidal Fogging
Chapter 27 Semiconductor Fabrication Facilities
Chapter 28 Lumber Yards and Agro-Industrial, Solid Biomass and Woodworking Facilities
Chapter 29 Manufacture of Organic Coatings
Chapter 30 Industrial Ovens
Chapter 31 Tents, Temporary Special Event Structures and Other Membrane Structure
Chapter 32 High-Piled Combustible Storage
Chapter 33 Fire Safety During Construction and Demolition
Chapter 34 Tire Rebuilding and Tire Storage
Chapter 35 Welding and Other Hot Work
Chapter 36 Marinas
Chapter 37 Combustible Fibers
Chapter 38 Higher Education Laboratories
Chapter 39 Processing and Extraction Facilities
Chapter 40 Storage of Distilled Spirits and Wines
Chapter 41 Temporary Heating and Cooking Operation
Chapters 42-49 Reserved
Part V Hazardous Materials
Chapter 50 Hazardous Materials—General Provisions
Chapter 51 Aerosols
Chapter 52 Reserved
Chapter 53 Compressed Gases
Chapter 54 Corrosive Materials
Chapter 55 Cryogenic Fluids
Chapter 56 Explosives and Fireworks
Chapter 57 Flammable and Combustible Liquids
Chapter 58 Flammable Gases and Flammable Cryogenic Fluids
Chapter 59 Flammable Solids
Chapter 60 Highly Toxic and Toxic Materials
Chapter 61 Liquefied Petroleum Gases
Chapter 62 Organic Peroxides
Chapter 63 Oxidizers, Oxidizing Gases and Oxidizing Cryogenic Fluids
Chapter 64 Pyrophoric Materials
Chapter 65 Pyroxylin (Cellulose Nitrate) Plastics
Chapter 66 Unstable (Reactive) Materials
Chapter 67 Water-Reactive Solids and Liquids
Chapters 68-79 Reserved
Part VI Referenced Standards
Chapter 80 Referenced Standards
Part VII Appendices
Appendix A Board of Appeals
Appendix B Fire-Flow Requirements for Buildings
Appendix C Fire Hydrant Locations and Distribution
Appendix D Fire Apparatus Access Roads
Appendix E Hazard Categories
Appendix F Hazard Ranking
Appendix G Cryogenic Fluids—Weight and Volume Equivalents
Appendix H Hazardous Materials Management Plan (Hmmp) and Hazardous Materials Inventory Statement (Hmis) Instructions
Appendix I Fire Protection Systems—Noncompliant Conditions
Appendix J Building Information Sign
Appendix K Construction Requirements for Existing Ambulatory Care Facilities
Appendix L Requirements for Firefighter Air Replenishment Systems
Appendix M High-Rise Buildings—Retroactive Automatic Sprinkler Requirement
Appendix N Indoor Trade Shows and Exhibitions
Appendix O Valet Trash and Recycling Collection in Group R-2 Occupancies
Index
Content Updates—Version 2
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
User notes:
About this chapter: Chapter 1 establishes the limits of applicability of the code and describes how the code is to be applied and enforced. Chapter 1 is in two parts: Part 1—General Provisions (Sections 101–102) and Part 2—Administrative Provisions (Sections 103–115). Section 102 identifies which buildings and structures come under its purview and references other I-Codes as applicable.This code is intended to be adopted as a legally enforceable document, and it cannot be effective without adequate provisions for its administration and enforcement. The provisions of Chapter 1 establish the authority and duties of the code official appointed by the authority having jurisdiction and also establish the rights and privileges of the design professional, contractor and property owner. Code development reminder: Code change proposals to this chapter will be considered by the Administrative Code Development Committee during the 2025 (Group B) Code Development Cycle.Section 104 was revised for the 2024 edition. For clarity, the relocation marginal markings have not been included. For complete information, see the Relocations table in the Preface of this code. QR code use: A QR code is placed at the beginning of any section that has undergone technical revision. To see those revisions, scan the QR code with a smart device or enter the 7-digit code beneath the QR code at the end of the following URL: qr.iccsafe.org/ (see Formatting Changes to the 2024 International Codes for more information).
Part 1—General ProvisionsSection 101 Scope and General Requirements
[A] 101.1 Title.
These regulations shall be known as the Fire Code of [NAME OF JURISDICTION], hereinafter referred to as “this code.”
[A] 101.2 Scope.
This code establishes regulations affecting or relating to structures, processes, premises and safeguards regarding all of the following:1.The hazard of fire and explosion arising from the storage, handling or use of structures, materials or devices.2.Conditions hazardous to life, property or public welfare in the occupancy of structures or premises.3.Fire hazards in the structure or on the premises from occupancy or operation.4.Matters related to the construction, extension, repair,
alteration or removal of fire protection systems.5.Conditions affecting the safety of firefighters and emergency responders during emergency operations.
[A] 101.2.1 Appendices.
Provisions in the appendices shall not apply unless specifically adopted.
[A] 101.3 Purpose.
INSIGHTS
The purpose of this code is to establish the minimum requirements for providing a reasonable level of life safety and property protection from the hazards of fire, explosion or dangerous conditions in new and existing buildings, structures and premises, and to provide a reasonable level of safety to firefighters and emergency responders during emergency operations. INSIGHTS (2)
[A] 101.4 Severability.
If a section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this code is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this code.
[A] 101.5 Validity.
CDP
In the event any part or provision of this code is held to be illegal or void, this shall not have the effect of making void or illegal any of the other parts or provisions hereof, which are determined to be legal; and it shall be presumed that this code would have been adopted without such illegal or invalid parts or provisions.
Section 102 Applicability
[A] 102.1 Construction and design provisions.
The construction and design provisions of this code shall apply to:1.Structures, facilities and conditions arising after the adoption of this code.2.Existing structures, facilities and conditions not legally in existence at the time of adoption of this code.3.Existing structures, facilities and conditions where required in Chapter 11.4.Existing structures, facilities and conditions that, in the opinion of the fire code official, constitute a distinct hazard to life or property.
[A] 102.2 Administrative, operational and maintenance provisions.
The administrative, operational and maintenance provisions of this code shall apply to:1.Conditions and operations arising after the adoption of this code.2.Existing conditions and operations.
[A] 102.3 Change of use or occupancy.
A change of occupancy shall not be made unless the use or occupancy is made to comply with the requirements of this code and the International Existing Building Code .Exception: Where approved by the fire code official, a change of occupancy shall be permitted without complying with the requirements of this code and the International Existing Building Code, provided that the new or proposed use or occupancy is less hazardous, based on life and fire risk, than the existing use or occupancy.
[A] 102.4 Application of building code.
The design and construction of new structures shall comply with the International Building Code, and any alterations, additions, changes in use or changes in structures required by this code, which are within the scope of the International Building Code, shall be made in accordance therewith.
[A] 102.5 Application of residential code.
CDP
Where structures are designed and constructed in accordance with the International Residential Code, the provisions of this code shall apply as follows:1.Construction and design provisions of this code pertaining to the exterior of the structure shall apply including, but not limited to, premises identification, fire apparatus access and water supplies. Where interior or exterior systems or devices are installed, construction permits required by Section 105.6 shall apply.2.Administrative, operational and maintenance provisions of this code shall apply.
[A] 102.6 Historic buildings.
The provisions of this code relating to the construction, alteration, repair, enlargement, restoration, relocation or moving of buildings or structures shall not be mandatory for existing buildings or structures identified and classified by the state or local jurisdiction as historic buildings where such buildings or structures do not constitute a distinct hazard to life or property. Fire protection in designated historic buildings shall be provided with an approved fire protection plan as required in Section 1103.1.1.
[A] 102.7 Referenced codes and standards.
The codes and standards referenced in this code shall be those that are listed in Chapter 80, and such codes and standards shall be considered to be part of the requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each such reference and as further regulated by Sections 102.7.1 and
102.7.2.
[A] 102.7.1 Conflicts.
Where conflicts occur between provisions of this code and referenced codes and standards, the provisions of this code shall apply.
[A] 102.7.2 Provisions in referenced codes and standards.
Where the extent of the reference to a referenced code or standard includes subject matter that is within the scope of this code, the provisions of this code, as applicable, shall take precedence over the provisions in the referenced code or standard.
[A] 102.8 Subjects not regulated by this code.
CDP
Where applicable standards or requirements are not set forth in this code, or are contained within other laws, codes, regulations, ordinances or bylaws adopted by the jurisdiction, compliance with applicable standards of the National Fire Protection Association or other nationally recognized fire safety standards, as approved, shall be deemed as prima facie evidence of compliance with the intent of this code. Nothing herein shall derogate from the authority of the fire code official to determine compliance with codes or standards for those activities or installations within the fire code official’s jurisdiction or responsibility.
[A] 102.9 Matters not provided for.
Requirements that are essential for the public safety of an existing or proposed activity, building or structure, or for the safety of the occupants thereof, that are not specifically provided for by this code, shall be determined by the fire code official.
[A] 102.10 Conflicting provisions.
Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall be applicable. Where, in a specific case, different sections of this code specify different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most restrictive shall govern.
[A] 102.11 Other laws.
CDP
The provisions of this code shall not be deemed to nullify any provisions of local, state or federal law.
[A] 102.12 Application of references.
References to chapter or section numbers, or to provisions not specifically identified by number, shall be construed to refer to such chapter, section or provision of this code.
Part 2—Administration and EnforcementSection 103 Code Compliance Agency
[A] 103.1 Creation of agency.
The [INSERT NAME OF DEPARTMENT] is hereby created and the official in charge thereof shall be known as the fire code official. The function of the agency shall be the implementation, administration and enforcement of the provisions of this code.
[A] 103.2 Appointment.
The fire code official shall be appointed by the chief appointing authority of the jurisdiction.
[A] 103.3 Deputies.
In accordance with the prescribed procedures of this jurisdiction and with the concurrence of the appointing authority, the fire code official shall have the authority to appoint a deputy fire code official, other related technical officers, inspectors and other employees. Such employees shall have powers as delegated by the fire code official.
Section 104 Duties and Powers of the Fire Code Official
[A] 104.1 General.
The fire code official is hereby authorized to enforce the provisions of this code.
[A]
104.2 Determination of compliance.
The fire code official shall have the authority to determine compliance with this code, to render interpretations of this code and to adopt policies and procedures in order to clarify the application of its provisions. Such interpretations, policies and procedures:
1. Shall be in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code.
2. Shall not have the effect of waiving requirements specifically provided for in this code.
[A]
104.2.1 Listed compliance.
Where this code or a referenced standard requires equipment, materials, products or services to be listed and a listing standard is specified, the listing shall be based on the specified standard. Where a listing standard is not specified, the listing shall be based on an approved listing criteria. Listings shall be germane to the provision requiring the listing. Installation shall be in accordance with the listing and the manufacturer’s instructions, and where required to verify compliance, the listing standard and manufacturer’s instructions shall be made available to the fire code official.
[A]
104.2.2 Technical assistance.
To determine compliance with this code, the fire code official is authorized to require the owner or owner’s authorized agent to provide a technical opinion and report.
[A]
104.2.2.1
Cost.
A technical opinion and report shall be provided without charge to the jurisdiction.
[A]
104.2.2.2 Preparer qualifications.
The technical opinion and report shall be prepared by a qualified engineer, specialist, laboratory or fire safety specialty organization acceptable to the fire code official. The fire code official is authorized to require design submittals to be prepared by, and bear the stamp of, a registered design professional.
[A]
104.2.2.3
Content.
The technical opinion and report shall analyze the properties of the design, operation or use of the building or premises and the facilities and appurtenances situated thereon to identify and propose necessary recommendations.
[A]
104.2.2.4
Tests.
Where there is insufficient evidence of compliance with the provisions of this code, the fire code official shall have the authority to require tests as evidence of compliance. Test methods shall be as specified in this code or by other recognized test standards. In the absence of recognized test standards, the fire code official shall approve the testing procedures. Such tests shall be performed by a party acceptable to the fire code official.
[A] 104.2.3 Alternative materials, design and methods of construction and equipment.
The provisions of this code are not intended to prevent the installation of any material or to prohibit any design or method of construction not specifically prescribed by this code, provided that any such alternative is not specifically prohibited by this code and has been approved. Exception:
Performance-based alternative materials, designs or methods of construction and equipment complying with the International Code Council Performance Code.
[A] 104.2.3.1 Approval authority.
An alternative material, design or method of construction shall be approved where the fire code official finds that the proposed alternative is satisfactory and complies with Sections 104.2.3.2 through 104.2.3.7, as applicable.
[A] 104.2.3.2 Application and disposition.
Where required, a request to use an alternative material, design or method of construction shall be submitted in writing to the fire code official for approval. Where the alternative material, design or method of construction is not approved, the fire code official shall respond in writing, stating the reasons the alternative was not approved.
[A]
104.2.3.3
Compliance with code intent.
An alternative material, design or method of construction shall comply with the intent of the provisions of this code.
[A]
104.2.3.4
Equivalency criteria.
An alternative material, design or method of construction shall, for the purpose intended, be not less than the equivalent of that prescribed in this code with respect to all of the following, as applicable:
1.
Quality.
2.
Strength.
3.
Effectiveness.
4.
Durability.
5. Safety, other than fire safety.
6. Fire safety.
[A]
104.2.3.5 Tests.
Tests conducted to demonstrate equivalency in support of an alternative material, design or method of construction application shall be of a scale that is sufficient to predict performance of the end use configuration. Tests shall be performed by a party acceptable to the fire code official.
[A] 104.2.3.5.1 Fire tests.
Tests conducted to demonstrate equivalent fire safety in support of an alternative material, design or method of construction application shall be of a scale that is sufficient to predict fire safety performance of the end use configuration. Tests shall be performed by a party acceptable to the fire code official.
[A]
104.2.3.6 Reports.
Supporting data, where necessary to assist in the approval of materials or assemblies not specifically provided for in this code, shall comply with Sections 104.2.3.6.1 and 104.2.3.6.2.
[A] 104.2.3.6.1 Evaluation reports.
Evaluation reports shall be issued by an approved agency and use of the evaluation report shall require approval by the fire code official for the installation. The alternate material, design or method of construction and product evaluated shall be within the scope of the fire code official’s recognition of the approved agency. Criteria used for the evaluation shall be identified within the report and, where required, provided to the fire code official.
[A]
104.2.3.6.2 Other reports.
Reports not complying with Section 104.2.3.6.1 shall describe criteria, including but not limited to any referenced testing or analysis, used to determine compliance with code intent and justify code equivalence. The report shall be prepared by a qualified engineer, specialist, laboratory or fire safety specialty organization acceptable to the fire code official. The fire code official is authorized to require design submittals to be prepared by, and bear the stamp of, a registered design professional.
[A]
104.2.3.7
Peer review.
The fire code official is authorized to require submittal of a peer review report in conjunction with a request to use an alternative material, design or method of construction, prepared by a peer reviewer that is approved by the fire code official.
104.2.4 Modifications.
Where there are practical difficulties involved in carrying out the provisions of this code, the fire code official shall have the authority to grant modifications in accordance with Section 104.2.4.1 or 104.2.4.2.
104.2.4.1 Individual cases.
The fire code official shall have the authority to grant modifications for individual cases, provided that the fire code official shall first find that special individual reason makes the strict letter of this code impractical and the modification is in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code and that such modification does not lessen health, life and fire safety requirements. The details of action granting modifications shall be recorded and entered in the files of the code compliance agency.
104.2.4.2 Natural disasters.
In preparation for, during and after a natural disaster event, as determined by the fire code official, the fire code official shall have the authority to issue written policies, procedures or rules that modify this code as necessary to protect life and property. Such policies, procedures or rules shall be made available to the public and shall include start and end dates, which can be extended at the fire code official’s discretion.
[A]
104.3 Applications and permits.
The fire code official is authorized to receive applications, review construction documents and issue permits for construction regulated by this code, issue permits for operations regulated by this code, inspect the premises for which such permits have been issued and enforce compliance with the provisions of this code.
[A]
104.4 Right of entry.
Where it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of this code, or where the fire code official has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in a structure or on any premises a condition that is contrary to or in violation of this code that makes the
structure or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the fire code official is authorized to enter the structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect or to perform the duties imposed on the fire code official by this code. If such structure or premises is occupied, the fire code official shall present credentials to the occupant and request entry. If such structure or premises is unoccupied, the fire code official shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner, the owner's authorized agent or other person having charge or control of the structure or premises and request entry. If entry is refused, the fire code official shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
[A]
104.4.1 Warrant.
Where the fire code official has first obtained a proper inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, an owner, the owner's authorized agent, occupant or person having charge, care or control of the structure or premises shall not fail or neglect, after a proper request is made as herein provided, to permit entry therein by the fire code official for the purposes of inspection and examination pursuant to this code.
[A]
104.5 Identification.
The fire code official shall carry proper identification when inspecting structures or premises in the performance of duties under this code.
[A]
104.6 Notices and orders.
The fire code official shall issue necessary notices or orders to ensure compliance with this code. Notices of violations shall be in accordance with Section 113.
[A]
104.7 Official records.
The fire code official shall keep official records as required by Sections 104.7.1 through
104.7.6. Such official records shall be retained for not less than 5 years or for as long as the building or structure to which such records relate remains in existence, unless otherwise provided by other regulations.
[A]
104.7.1 Approvals.
A record of approvals shall be maintained by the fire code official and shall be available for public inspection during business hours in accordance with applicable laws.
[A]
104.7.2 Inspections.
The fire code official shall keep a record of each inspection made, including notices and orders issued, showing the findings and disposition of each.
104.7.3 Fire records.
The fire code official shall keep a record of fires occurring within its jurisdiction and of facts concerning the same, including statistics as to the extent of such fires and the damage caused thereby, together with other information as required by the fire code official.
[A]
104.7.4
Code alternatives and modifications.
Application for alternative materials, design and methods of construction and equipment in accordance with Section 104.2.3; modifications in accordance with Section 104.2.4;  and documentation of the final decision of the fire code official for either shall be in writing and shall be retained in the official records.
[A]
104.7.5
Tests.
The fire code official shall keep a record of tests conducted to comply with Sections 104.2.2.4 and
104.2.3.5.
[A]
104.7.6
Fees.
The fire code official shall keep a record of fees collected and refunded in accordance with Section 108.
[A]
104.8 Liability.
The fire code official, member of the board of appeals, officer or employee charged with the enforcement of this code, while acting for the jurisdiction, in good faith and without malice in the discharge of the duties required by this code or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not thereby be rendered personally liable, either civilly or criminally, and is hereby relieved from all personal liability for any damage accruing to persons or property as a result of any act or by reason of an act or omission in the discharge of official duties.
[A]
104.8.1 Legal defense.
Any suit or criminal complaint instituted against any officer or employee because of an act performed by that officer or employee in the lawful discharge of duties and under the provisions of this code or other laws or ordinances implemented through the enforcement of this code shall be defended by the legal representatives of the jurisdiction until the final termination of the proceedings. The fire code official or any subordinate shall not be liable for costs in an action, suit or proceeding that is instituted in pursuance of the provisions of this code; and any officer of the department of fire prevention, acting in good faith and without malice, shall be free from liability for acts performed under any of its provisions or by reason of any act or omission in the performance of official duties in connection therewith.
104.9 Approved materials and equipment.
Materials, equipment and devices approved by the fire code official shall be constructed and installed in accordance with such approval.
[A]
104.9.1 Materials and equipment reuse.
Materials, equipment and devices shall not be reused unless such elements are in good working order and approved.
104.10 Fire investigations.
The fire code official, the fire department or other responsible authority shall have the authority to investigate the cause, origin and circumstances of any fire, explosion or other hazardous condition. Information that could be related to trade secrets or processes shall not be made part of the public record, except as directed by a court of law.
104.10.1 Assistance from other agencies.
Police and other enforcement agencies shall have authority to render necessary assistance in the investigation of fires when requested to do so.
104.11 Authority at fires and other emergencies.
The fire chief or officer of the fire department in charge at the scene of a fire or other emergency involving the protection of life or property, or any part thereof, shall have the authority to direct such operation as necessary to extinguish or control any fire, perform any rescue operation, investigate the existence of suspected or reported fires, gas leaks or other hazardous conditions or situations, or take any other action necessary in the reasonable performance of duty. In the exercise of such power, the fire chief is authorized to prohibit any person, vehicle, vessel or thing from approaching the scene, and is authorized to remove, or cause to be removed or kept away from the scene, any vehicle, vessel or thing that could impede or interfere with the operations of the fire department and, in the judgment of the fire chief, any person not actually and usefully employed in the extinguishing of such fire or in the preservation of property in the vicinity thereof.
104.11.1 Barricades.
The fire chief or officer of the fire department in charge at the scene of an emergency is authorized to place ropes, guards, barricades or other obstructions across any street, alley, place or private property in the vicinity of such operation so as to prevent accidents or interference with the lawful efforts of the fire department to manage and control the situation and to handle fire apparatus.
104.11.2 Obstructing operations.
Persons shall not obstruct the operations of the fire department in connection with extinguishment or control of any fire, or actions relative to other emergencies, or disobey any lawful command of the fire chief or officer of the fire department in charge of the emergency, or any part thereof, or any lawful order of a police officer assisting the fire department.
104.11.3 Systems and devices.
Persons shall not render a system or device inoperative during an emergency unless by direction of the fire chief or fire department official in charge of the incident.
Section 105 Permits
[A] 105.1 General.
Permits shall be in accordance with Sections 105.1.1 through
105.6.25 .
[A] 105.1.1 Permits required.
A property owner or owner’s authorized agent who intends to conduct an operation or business, or install or modify systems and equipment that are regulated by this code, or to cause any such work to be performed, shall first make application to the fire code official and obtain the required permit.
105.1.2 Types of permits.
There shall be two types of permits as follows:1.Operational permit. An operational permit allows the applicant to conduct an operation or a business for which a permit is required by Section 105.5 for either:1.1.A prescribed period.1.2.Until renewed or revoked.2.Construction permit. A construction permit allows the applicant to install or modify systems and equipment for which a permit is required by Section 105.6.
105.1.3 Multiple permits for the same location.
Where more than one permit is required for the same location, the fire code official is authorized to consolidate such permits into a single permit provided that each provision is listed in the permit.
[A] 105.1.4 Emergency repairs.
Where equipment replacement and repairs must be performed in an emergency situation, the permit application shall be submitted within the next working business day to the fire code official.
[A] 105.1.5 Repairs.
Application or notice to the fire code official is not required for ordinary repairs to structures, equipment or systems. Such repairs shall not include the cutting away of any wall, partition or portion thereof, the removal or change of any required means of egress, or rearrangement of parts of a structure affecting the egress requirements; nor shall any repairs include addition to, alteration of, replacement or relocation of any standpipe, fire protection water supply, automatic sprinkler system, fire alarm system or other work affecting fire protection or life safety.
[A] 105.1.6 Annual permit.
Instead of an individual construction permit for each alteration to an already approved system or equipment installation, the fire code official is authorized to issue an annual permit on application therefor to any person, firm or corporation regularly employing one or more qualified tradespersons in the building, structure or on the premises owned or operated by the applicant for the permit.
[A] 105.1.6.1 Annual permit records.
The person to whom an annual permit is issued shall keep a detailed record of alterations made under such annual permit. The fire code official shall have access to such records at all times or such records shall be filed with the fire code official as designated.
[A] 105.2 Application.
Application for a permit required by this code shall be made to the fire code official in such form and detail as prescribed by the fire code official. Applications for permits shall be accompanied by such plans as prescribed by the fire code official.
[A] 105.2.1 Refusal to issue permit.
If the application for a permit describes a use that does not conform to the requirements of this code and other pertinent laws and ordinances, the fire code official shall not issue a permit, but shall return the application to the applicant with the refusal to issue such permit. Such refusal shall, where requested, be in writing and shall contain the reasons for refusal.
[A] 105.2.2 Inspection authorized.
Before a new operational permit is approved, the fire code official is authorized to inspect the receptacles, vehicles, buildings, devices, premises, storage spaces or areas to be used to determine compliance with this code or any operational constraints required.
[A] 105.2.3 Time limitation of application.
An application for a permit for any proposed work or operation shall be deemed to have been abandoned 180 days after the date of filing, unless such application has been diligently prosecuted or a permit shall have been issued; except that the fire code official is authorized to grant one or more extensions of time for additional periods not exceeding 90 days each. The extension shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause demonstrated.
[A] 105.2.4 Action on application.
The fire code official shall examine or cause to be examined applications for permits and amendments thereto within a reasonable time after filing. If the application or the construction documents do not conform to the requirements of pertinent laws, the fire code official shall reject such application in writing, stating the reasons therefor. If the fire code official is satisfied that the proposed work or operation conforms to the requirements of this code and laws and ordinances applicable thereto, the fire code official shall issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable.
[A] 105.3 Conditions of a permit.
A permit shall constitute permission to maintain, store or handle materials; or to conduct processes that produce conditions hazardous to life or property; or to install equipment utilized in connection with such activities; or to install or modify any fire protection system or equipment or any other construction, equipment installation or modification in accordance with the provisions of this code where a permit is required by Section 105.5 or 105.6. Such permission shall not be construed as authority to violate, cancel or set aside any of the provisions of this code or other applicable regulations or laws of the jurisdiction.
[A] 105.3.1 Expiration.
An operational permit shall remain in effect until reissued, renewed or revoked, or for such a period of time as specified in the permit. Construction permits shall automatically become invalid unless the work authorized by such permit is commenced within 180 days after its issuance, or if the work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of 180 days after the time the work is commenced. Before such work recommences, a new permit shall be first obtained and the fee to recommence work, if any, shall be one-half the amount required for a new permit for such work, provided that changes have not been made and will not be made in the original construction documents for such work, and provided further that such suspension or abandonment has not exceeded one year. Permits are not transferable and any change in occupancy, operation, tenancy or ownership shall require that a new permit be issued.
[A] 105.3.2 Extensions.
A permittee holding an unexpired permit shall have the right to apply for an extension of the time within which the permittee will commence work under that permit where work is unable to be commenced within the time required by this section for good and satisfactory reasons. The fire code official is authorized to grant, in writing, one or more extensions of the time period of a permit for periods of not more than 180 days each. Such extensions shall be requested by the permit holder in writing and justifiable cause demonstrated.
[A] 105.3.3 Occupancy prohibited before approval.
The building or structure shall not be occupied prior to the fire code official issuing a permit and conducting associated inspections indicating the applicable provisions of this code have been met.
[A] 105.3.4 Conditional permits.
Where permits are required and on the request of a permit applicant, the fire code official is authorized to issue a conditional permit to occupy the premises or portion thereof before the entire work or operations on the premises is completed, provided that such portion or portions will be occupied safely prior to full completion or installation of equipment and operations without endangering life or public welfare. The fire code official shall notify the permit applicant in writing of any limitations or restrictions necessary to keep the permit area safe. The holder of a conditional permit shall proceed only to the point for which approval has been given, at the permit holder’s own risk and without assurance that approval for the occupancy or the utilization of the entire premises, equipment or operations will be granted.
[A] 105.3.5 Posting the permit.
Issued permits shall be kept on the premises designated therein at all times and shall be readily available for inspection by the fire code official .
[A] 105.3.6 Compliance with code.
The issuance or granting of a permit shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of this code or of any other ordinance of the jurisdiction. Permits presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this code or other ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid. The issuance of a permit based on construction documents and other data shall not prevent the fire code official from requiring the correction of errors in the construction documents and other data. Any addition to or alteration of approved construction documents shall be approved in advance by the fire code official, as evidenced by the issuance of a new or amended permit.
[A] 105.3.7 Information on the permit.
The fire code official shall issue all permits required by this code on an approved form furnished for that purpose. The permit shall contain a general description of the operation or occupancy and its location and any other information required by the fire code official. Issued permits shall bear the signature of the fire code official or other approved legal authorization.
[A] 105.3.8 Validity of permit.
The issuance or granting of a permit shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of this code or of any other ordinances of the jurisdiction. Permits presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this code or other ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid. The issuance of a permit based on construction documents, operational documents and other data shall not prevent the fire code official from requiring correction of errors in the documents or other data.
[A] 105.4 Revocation.
The fire code official is authorized to revoke a permit issued under the provisions of this code where it is found by inspection or otherwise that there has been a false statement or misrepresentation as to the material facts in the application or construction documents on which the permit or approval was based including, but not limited to, any one of the following:1.The permit is used for a location or establishment other than that for which it was issued.2.The permit is used for a condition or activity other than that listed in the permit.3.Conditions and limitations set forth in the permit have been violated.4.There have been any false statements or misrepresentations as to the material fact in the application for permit or plans submitted or a condition of the permit.5.The permit is used by a different person or firm than the name for which it was issued.6.The permittee failed, refused or neglected to comply with orders or notices duly served in accordance with the provisions of this code within the time provided therein.7.The permit was issued in error or in violation of an ordinance, regulation or this code.
105.5 Required operational permits.
The fire code official is authorized to issue operational permits for the operations set forth in Sections 105.5.2 through 105.5.54 .
105.5.1 Additive manufacturing.
An operational permit is required to conduct additive manufacturing operations regulated by Section 4106.3.
105.5.2 Aerosol products, aerosol cooking spray products and plastic aerosol 3 products.
An operational permit is required to manufacture, store or handle an aggregate quantity of Level 2 or Level 3 aerosol products, aerosol cooking spray products or plastic aerosol 3 products in excess of 500 pounds (227 kg) net weight.
105.5.3 Amusement areas.
An operational permit is required to operate a special amusement area .
105.5.4 Aviation facilities.
An operational permit is required to use a Group H or Group S occupancy for aircraft servicing or repair and aircraft fuel-servicing vehicles. Additional permits required by other sections of this code include, but are not limited to, hot work, hazardous materials and flammable or combustible finishes.
105.5.5 Carnivals and fairs.
An operational permit is required to conduct a carnival or fair.
105.5.6 Cellulose nitrate film.
An operational permit is required to store, handle or use cellulose nitrate film in a Group A occupancy.
105.5.7 Combustible dust-producing operations.
An operational permit is required to operate a grain elevator, flour starch mill, feed mill, or a plant pulverizing aluminum, coal, cocoa, magnesium, spices or sugar, or other operations producing combustible dusts as defined in Chapter 2.
105.5.8 Combustible fibers.
An operational permit is required for the storage and handling of combustible fibers in quantities greater than 100 cubic feet (2.8 m3).Exception: A permit is not required for agricultural storage.
105.5.9 Compressed gases.
An operational permit is required for the storage, use or handling at normal temperature and pressure (NTP) of compressed gases in excess of the amounts listed in Table 105.5.9.Exception: Vehicles equipped for and using compressed gas as a fuel for propelling the vehicle.
TABLE 105.5.9 PERMIT AMOUNTS FOR COMPRESSED GASES
TYPE OF GAS
AMOUNT (cubic feet at NTP)
Carbon dioxide used in carbon dioxide enrichment systems 875 (100 lb)
Carbon dioxide used in insulated liquid carbon dioxide beverage dispensing applications 875 (100 lb)
Corrosive 200
Flammable (except cryogenic fluids and liquefied petroleum gases) 200
Highly toxic Any Amount
Inert and simple asphyxiant 6,000
Oxidizing (including oxygen) 504
Pyrophoric Any Amount
Toxic Any Amount
For SI: 1 cubic foot = 0.02832 m3.
105.5.10 Covered and open mall buildings.
An operational permit is required for:1.The placement of retail fixtures and displays, concession equipment, displays of highly combustible goods and similar items in the mall.2.The display of liquid- or gas-fired equipment in the mall.3.The use of open-flame or flame-producing equipment in the mall.
105.5.11 Cryogenic fluids.
An operational permit is required to produce, store, transport on site, use, handle or dispense cryogenic fluids in excess of the amounts listed in Table 105.5.11.Exception: Permits are not required for vehicles equipped for and using cryogenic fluids as a fuel for propelling the vehicle or for refrigerating the lading.
TABLE 105.5.11 PERMIT AMOUNTS FOR CRYOGENIC FLUIDS
TYPE OF CRYOGENIC FLUID
INSIDE BUILDING (gallons)
OUTSIDE BUILDING (gallons)
Flammable More than 1 60
Inert 60 500
Oxidizing (includes oxygen) 10 50
Physical or health hazard not indicated above Any Amount Any Amount
For SI: 1 gallon = 3.785 L.
105.5.12 Cutting and welding.
An operational permit is required to conduct cutting or welding operations within the jurisdiction.
105.5.13 Dry cleaning.
An operational permit is required to engage in the business of dry cleaning or to change to a more hazardous cleaning solvent used in existing dry cleaning equipment.
105.5.14 Energy storage systems.
An operational permit is required for stationary and mobile energy storage systems regulated by Section 1207.
105.5.15 Exhibits and trade shows.
An operational permit is required to operate exhibits and trade shows.
105.5.16 Explosives.
An operational permit is required for the manufacture, storage, handling, sale or use of any quantity of explosives, explosive materials, fireworks or pyrotechnic special effects within the scope of Chapter 56.Exception: Storage in Group R-3 occupancies of smokeless propellant, black powder and small arms primers for personal use, not for resale and in accordance with Section 5606.
105.5.17 Fire hydrants and valves.
An operational permit is required to use or operate fire hydrants or valves intended for fire suppression purposes that are installed on water systems and provided with ready access from a fire apparatus access road that is open to or generally used by the public.Exception: A permit is not required for authorized employees of the water company that supplies the system or the fire department to use or operate fire hydrants or valves.
105.5.18 Flammable and combustible liquids.
An operational permit is required:1.To use or operate a pipeline for the transportation within facilities of flammable or combustible liquids. This requirement shall not apply to the off-site transportation in pipelines regulated by the Department of Transportation (DOTn) nor does it apply to piping systems.2.To store, handle or use Class I liquids in excess of 5 gallons (19 L) in a building or in excess of 10 gallons (37.9 L) outside of a building, except that a permit is not required for the following:2.1.The storage or use of Class I liquids in the fuel tank of a motor vehicle, aircraft, motorboat, mobile power plant or mobile heating plant, unless such storage, in the opinion of the fire code official, would cause an unsafe condition.2.2.The storage or use of paints, oils, varnishes or similar flammable mixtures where such liquids are stored for maintenance, painting or similar purposes for a period of not more than 30 days.3.To store, handle or use Class II or Class IIIA liquids in excess of 25 gallons (95 L) in a building or in excess of 60 gallons (227 L) outside a building, except for fuel oil used in connection with oil-burning equipment.4.To store, handle or use Class IIIB liquids in tanks or portable tanks for fueling motor vehicles at motor fuel-dispensing facilities or where connected to fuel-burning equipment.Exception: Fuel oil and used motor oil used for space heating or water heating.5.To remove Class I or II liquids from an underground storage tank used for fueling motor vehicles by any means other than the approved, stationary on-site pumps normally used for dispensing purposes.6.To operate tank vehicles, equipment, tanks, plants, terminals, wells, fuel-dispensing stations, refineries, distilleries and similar facilities where flammable and combustible liquids are produced, processed, transported, stored, dispensed or used.7.To place temporarily out of service (for more than 90 days) an underground, protected above-ground or above-ground flammable or combustible liquid tank.8.To change the type of contents stored in a flammable or combustible liquid tank to a material that poses a greater hazard than that for which the tank was designed and constructed.9.To manufacture, process, blend or refine flammable or combustible liquids.10.To engage in the dispensing of liquid fuels into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles at commercial, industrial, governmental or manufacturing establishments in accordance with Section 5706.5.4 or to engage in on-demand mobile fueling operations in accordance with Section 5707 .11.To utilize a site for the dispensing of liquid fuels from tank vehicles into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles, marine craft and other special equipment at commercial, industrial, governmental or manufacturing establishments in accordance with Section 5706.5.4 or, where required by the fire code official, to utilize a site for on-demand mobile fueling operations in accordance with Section 5707 .
105.5.19 Floor finishing.
An operational permit is required for floor finishing or surfacing operations exceeding 350 square feet (33 m2) using Class I or Class II liquids.
105.5.20 Fruit and crop ripening.
An operational permit is required to operate a fruit- or crop-ripening facility or conduct a fruit-ripening process using ethylene gas.
105.5.21 Fumigation and insecticidal fogging.
An operational permit is required to operate a business of fumigation or insecticidal fogging, and to maintain a room, vault or chamber in which a toxic or flammable fumigant is used.
105.5.22 Hazardous materials.
An operational permit is required to store, transport on site, dispense, use or handle hazardous materials in excess of the amounts listed in Table 105.5.22.
TABLE 105.5.22 PERMIT AMOUNTS FOR HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
TYPE OF MATERIAL
AMOUNT
Combustible liquids See Section 105.5.18
Corrosive materials
Gases See Section 105.5.9
Liquids 55 gallons
Solids 1,000 pounds
Explosive materials See Section 105.5.16
Flammable materials
Gases See Section 105.5.9
Liquids See Section 105.5.18
Solids 100 pounds
Highly toxic materials
Gases See Section 105.5.9
Liquids Any Amount
Solids Any Amount
Organic peroxides
Liquids
Class I Any Amount
Class II Any Amount
Class III 1 gallon
Class IV 2 gallons
Class V No Permit Required
Solids
Class I Any Amount
Class II Any Amount
Class III 10 pounds
Class IV 20 pounds
Class V No Permit Required
Oxidizing materials
Gases
Liquids See Section 105.5.9
Class 4 Any Amount
Class 3 1 gallona
Class 2 10 gallons
Class 1 55 gallons
Solids
Class 4 Any Amount
Class 3 10 poundsb
Class 2 100 pounds
Class 1 500 pounds
Pyrophoric materials
Gases Any Amount
Liquids Any Amount
Solids Any Amount
Toxic materials
Gases See Section 105.5.9
Liquids 10 gallons
Solids 100 pounds
Unstable (reactive) materials
Liquids
Class 4 Any Amount
Class 3 Any Amount
Class 2 5 gallons
Class 1 10 gallons
Solids
Class 4 Any Amount
Class 3 Any Amount
Class 2 50 pounds
Class 1 100 pounds
Water-reactive materials
Liquids
Class 3 Any Amount
Class 2 5 gallons
Class 1 55 gallons
Solids
Class 3 Any Amount
Class 2 50 pounds
Class 1 500 pounds
For SI: 1 gallon = 3.785 L, 1 pound = 0.454 kg.a.22 gallons where Table 5003.1.1(1)
Note j applies and hazard identification signs in accordance with Section 5003.5 are provided for quantities of 22 gallons or less.b.220 pounds where Table 5003.1.1(1)
Note j applies and hazard identification signs in accordance with Section 5003.5 are provided for quantities of 220 pounds or less.
105.5.23 HPM facilities.
An operational permit is required to store, handle or use hazardous production materials.
105.5.24 High-piled storage.
An operational permit is required to use a building or portion thereof with more than 500 square feet (46 m2), including aisles, of high-piled combustible storage.
105.5.25 Hot work operations.
An operational permit is required for hot work including, but not limited to:1.Public exhibitions and demonstrations where hot work is conducted.2.Use of portable hot work equipment inside a structure.Exception: Work that is conducted under a construction permit.3.Fixed-site hot work equipment, such as welding booths.4.Hot work conducted within a wildfire risk area.5.Application of roof coverings with the use of an open-flame device.6.Where approved, the fire code official shall issue a permit to carry out a hot work program. This program allows approved personnel to regulate their facility’s hot work operations. The approved personnel shall be trained in the fire safety aspects denoted in this chapter and shall be responsible for issuing permits requiring compliance with the requirements found in Chapter 35. These permits shall be issued only to their employees or hot work operations under their supervision.
105.5.26
Indoor plant cultivation.
An operational permit is required for plant cultivation where a carbon dioxide (CO 2) enriched environment is created.
105.5.27 Industrial ovens.
An operational permit is required for operation of industrial ovens regulated by Chapter 30.
105.5.28 Liquid- or gas-fueled vehicles or equipment in assembly buildings.
An operational permit is required to display, operate or demonstrate liquid- or gas-fueled vehicles or equipment in assembly buildings.
105.5.29
Lithium batteries.
An operational permit is required for an accumulation of more than 15 cubic feet (0.42 m) of lithium-ion and lithium metal batteries, where required by Section 320.2.
105.5.30 LP-gas.
An operational permit is required for:1.Storage and use of LP-gas.Exception: A permit is not required for individual containers with a 500-gallon (1893 L) water capacity or less or multiple container systems having an aggregate quantity not exceeding 500 gallons (1893 L), serving occupancies in Group R-3.2.Operation of cargo tankers that transport LP-gas.
105.5.31 Lumber yards and woodworking plants.
An operational permit is required for the storage or processing of lumber exceeding 100,000 board feet (8,333 ft3) (236 m3).
105.5.32 Magnesium.
An operational permit is required to melt, cast, heat treat or grind more than 10 pounds (4.54 kg) of magnesium.
105.5.33 Miscellaneous combustible storage.
An operational permit is required to store in any building or on any premises in excess of 2,500 cubic feet (71 m3) gross volume of combustible empty packing cases, boxes, barrels or similar containers, combustible pallets, rubber tires, rubber, cork or similar combustible material.
105.5.34 Mobile food preparation vehicles.
An operational permit is required for mobile food preparation vehicles equipped with appliances that produce smoke or grease-laden vapors.
105.5.35 Motor fuel-dispensing facilities.
An operational permit is required for the operation of automotive, marine and fleet motor fuel-dispensing facilities.
105.5.36 Open burning.
An operational permit is required for the kindling or maintaining of an open fire or a fire on any public street, alley, road, or other public or private ground. Instructions and stipulations of the permit shall be complied with.Exception: Recreational fires.
105.5.37 Open flames and torches.
An operational permit is required to remove paint with a torch, or to use a torch or open-flame device in a wildfire risk area.
105.5.38 Open flames and candles.
An operational permit is required to use open flames or candles in connection with assembly areas, dining areas of restaurants or drinking establishments.
105.5.39 Organic coatings.
An operational permit is required for any organic-coating manufacturing operation producing more than 1 gallon (4 L) of an organic coating in one day.
105.5.40 Outdoor assembly event.
An operational permit is required to conduct an outdoor assembly event where planned attendance exceeds 1,000 persons.
105.5.41 Places of assembly.
An operational permit is required to operate a place of assembly.
105.5.42 Plant extraction systems.
An operational permit is required to use plant extraction systems.
105.5.43 Private fire hydrants.
An operational permit is required for the removal from service, use or operation of private fire hydrants.Exception: A permit is not required for private industry with trained maintenance personnel, private fire brigade or fire departments to maintain, test and use private hydrants.
105.5.44 Pyrotechnic special effects material.
An operational permit is required for use and handling of pyrotechnic special effects material.
105.5.45 Pyroxylin plastics.
An operational permit is required for storage or handling of more than 25 pounds (11 kg) of cellulose nitrate (pyroxylin) plastics, and for the assembly or manufacture of articles involving pyroxylin plastics.
105.5.46 Refrigeration equipment.
An operational permit is required to operate a mechanical refrigeration unit or system regulated by Chapter 6.
105.5.47 Repair garages and motor fuel-dispensing facilities.
An operational permit is required for operation of repair garages.
105.5.48 Rooftop heliports.
An operational permit is required for the operation of a rooftop heliport.
105.5.49 Spraying or dipping.
An operational permit is required to conduct a spraying or dipping operation utilizing flammable or combustible liquids, or the application of combustible powders regulated by Chapter 24.
105.5.50 Storage of scrap tires and tire byproducts.
An operational permit is required to establish, conduct or maintain storage of scrap tires and tire byproducts that exceeds 2,500 cubic feet (71 m3) of total volume of scrap tires, and for indoor storage of tires and tire byproducts.
105.5.51 Temporary membrane structures, special event structures and tents.
An operational permit is required to operate an air-supported temporary membrane structure, a temporary special event structure or a tent having an area in excess of 400 square feet (37 m2).Exceptions: 1.Tents used exclusively for recreational camping purposes.
2. Tents, curtains and extensions attached thereto, when used for funeral services.
3.Tents open on all sides, which comply with all of the following: 3.1.Individual tents having a maximum size of 700 square feet (65 m2). 3.2.The aggregate area of multiple tents placed side by side without a fire break clearance of not less than 12 feet (3658 mm) shall not exceed 700 square feet (65 m2) total. 3.3.A minimum clearance of 12 feet (3658 mm) to structures and other tents shall be provided.
105.5.52 Tire-rebuilding plants.
An operational permit is required for the operation and maintenance of a tire-rebuilding plant.
105.5.53 Waste handling.
An operational permit is required for the operation of wrecking yards, junk yards and waste material-handling facilities.
105.5.54 Wood products.
An operational permit is required to store chips, hogged material, lumber or plywood in excess of 200 cubic feet (6 m3).
105.5.55 Temporary heating or cooking in tents or membrane structures.
An operational permit is required to operate temporary heating or cooking equipment within tents or membrane structures.
105.5.56
Temporary heating or cooking in wildfire risk areas.
Where required by local regulations, an operational permit is required to operate temporary heating or cooking equipment in wildfire risk areas.
105.5.57
Temporary heating for construction sites.
An operational permit is required to operate temporary heating equipment in structures during the course of construction, alteration or demolition.
[A] 105.6 Required construction permits.
The fire code official is authorized to issue construction permits for work as set forth in Sections 105.6.1 through
105.6.25 .
[A] 105.6.1 Automatic fire-extinguishing systems.
A construction permit is required for installation of or modification to an automatic fire-extinguishing system, other than an automatic sprinkler system. Maintenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered to be a modification and does not require a permit.
[A]
105.6.2
Automatic sprinkler systems.
A construction permit is required for installation of or modification to an automatic sprinkler system. Maintenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered to be a modification and does not require a permit.
[A]
105.6.3 Compressed gases.
Where the compressed gases in use or storage exceed the amounts listed in Table 105.5.9, a construction permit is required to install, repair damage to, abandon, remove, place temporarily out of service, or close or substantially modify a compressed gas system.Exceptions: 1.Routine maintenance.2.For emergency repair work performed on an emergency basis, application for permit shall be made within two working days of commencement of work.
[A]
105.6.4 Cryogenic fluids.
A construction permit is required for installation of or alteration to outdoor stationary cryogenic fluid storage systems where the system capacity exceeds the amounts listed in Table 105.5.11. Maintenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered to be an alteration and does not require a construction permit.
[A]
105.6.5 Emergency responder communication coverage system.
A construction permit is required for installation of or modification to in-building, two-way emergency responder communication coverage systems and related equipment. Maintenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered to be a modification and does not require a construction permit.
[A]
105.6.6 Energy storage systems.
A construction permit is required to install energy storage systems regulated by Section 1207.
[A]
105.6.7 Fire alarm and detection systems and related equipment.
A construction permit is required for installation of or modification to fire alarm and detection systems and related equipment. Maintenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered to be a modification and does not require a construction permit.
[A]
105.6.8 Fire pumps and related equipment.
A construction permit is required for installation of or modification to fire pumps and related fuel tanks, jockey pumps, controllers and generators. Maintenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered to be a modification and does not require a construction permit.
[A]
105.6.9 Flammable and combustible liquids.
A construction permit is required:1.To install, repair or modify a pipeline for the transportation of flammable or combustible liquids.2.To install, construct or alter tank vehicles, equipment, tanks, plants, terminals, wells, fuel-dispensing stations, refineries, distilleries and similar facilities where flammable and combustible liquids are produced, processed, transported, stored, dispensed or used.3.To install, alter, remove, abandon or otherwise dispose of a flammable or combustible liquid tank.
[A]
105.6.10 Fuel cell power systems.
A construction permit is required to install stationary fuel cell power systems.
[A]
105.6.11 Gas detection systems.
A construction permit is required for the installation of or modification to gas detection systems. Maintenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered a modification and shall not require a permit.
[A]
105.6.12 Gates and barricades across fire apparatus access roads.
A construction permit is required for the installation of or modification to a gate or barricade across a fire apparatus access road.
[A]
105.6.13 Hazardous materials.
A construction permit is required to install, repair damage to, abandon, remove, place temporarily out of service, or close or substantially modify a storage facility or other area regulated by Chapter 50 where the hazardous materials in use or storage exceed the amounts listed in Table 105.5.22.Exceptions: 1.Routine maintenance.2.For repair work performed on an emergency basis, application for permit shall be made within two working days of commencement of work.
[A]
105.6.14 High-piled combustible storage.
A construction permit is required for the installation of or modification to a structure with more than 500 square feet (46 m2), including aisles, of high-piled combustible storage. Maintenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered to be a modification and does not require a construction permit.
[A]
105.6.15 Industrial ovens.
A construction permit is required for installation of industrial ovens regulated by Chapter 30.Exceptions: 1.Routine maintenance.2.For repair work performed on an emergency basis, application for permit shall be made within two working days of commencement of work.
[A]
105.6.16 LP-gas.
A construction permit is required for installation of or modification to an LP-gas system. Maintenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered to be a modification and does not require a permit.
[A]
105.6.17 Motor vehicle repair rooms and booths.
A construction permit is required to install or modify a motor vehicle repair room or booth. Maintenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered to be a modification and does not require a permit.
[A]
105.6.18 Plant extraction systems.
A construction permit is required for installation of or modification to plant extraction systems. Maintenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered to be a modification and does not require a permit.
[A]
105.6.19 Private fire hydrants.
A construction permit is required for the installation or modification of private fire hydrants. Maintenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered to be a modification and does not require a permit.
[A]
105.6.20 Smoke control or smoke exhaust systems.
Construction permits are required for installation of or alteration to smoke control or smoke exhaust systems. Maintenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered to be an alteration and does not require a permit.
[A]
105.6.21 Solar photovoltaic power systems.
A construction permit is required to install or modify solar photovoltaic power systems. Maintenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered to be a modification and does not require a permit.
[A]
105.6.22 Special event structure.
A single construction permit is required to erect and take down a temporary special event structure in accordance with Section 105.5.51.
[A]
105.6.23 Spraying or dipping.
A construction permit is required to install or modify a spray room, dip tank or booth. Maintenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered to be a modification and does not require a permit.
[A]
105.6.24 Standpipe systems.
A construction permit is required for the installation, modification or removal from service of a standpipe system. Maintenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered to be a modification and does not require a permit.
[A]
105.6.25 Temporary membrane structures and tents.
A construction permit is required to erect an air-supported temporary membrane structure, a temporary special event structure or a tent in accordance with Section 105.5.51.
Section 106 Construction Documents
[A] 106.1 Submittals.
Construction documents and supporting data shall be submitted in two or more sets with each application for a permit and in such form and detail as required by the fire code official. The construction documents shall be prepared by a registered design professional where required by the statutes of the jurisdiction in which the project is to be constructed.Exception: The fire code official is authorized to waive the submission of construction documents and supporting data not required to be prepared by a registered design professional if it is found that the nature of the work applied for is such that review of construction documents is not necessary to obtain compliance with this code.
[A] 106.2 Examination of documents.
The fire code official shall examine or cause to be examined the accompanying construction documents and shall ascertain by such examinations whether the work indicated and described is in accordance with the requirements of this code.
[A] 106.2.1 Information on construction documents.
Construction documents shall be drawn to scale on suitable material. Documents in a digital format are allowed to be submitted where approved by the fire code official. Construction documents shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the location, nature and extent of the work proposed and show in detail that it will conform to the provisions of this code and relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations as determined by the fire code official.
[A] 106.2.2 Fire protection system shop drawings.
Shop drawings for the fire protection system(s) shall be submitted to indicate compliance with this code and the construction documents, and shall be approved prior to the start of installation. Shop drawings shall contain all information as required by the referenced installation standards in Chapter 9 .
[A] 106.2.3 Applicant responsibility.
It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to ensure that the construction documents include all of the fire protection requirements and the shop drawings are complete and in compliance with the applicable codes and standards.
[A] 106.2.4 Approved documents.
Construction documents approved by the fire code official are approved with the intent that such construction documents comply in all respects with this code. Review and approval by the fire code official shall not relieve the applicant of the responsibility of compliance with this code.
[A]
106.2.4.1 Phased approval.
The fire code official is authorized to issue a permit for the construction of part of a structure, system or operation before the construction documents for the whole structure, system or operation have been submitted, provided that adequate information and detailed statements have been filed complying with pertinent requirements of this code. The holder of such permit for parts of a structure, system or operation shall proceed at the holder’s own risk with the building operation and without assurance that a permit for the entire structure, system or operation will be granted.
[A] 106.3 Amended construction documents.
Work shall be installed in accordance with the approved construction documents, and any changes made during construction that are not in compliance with the approved construction documents shall be resubmitted for approval as an amended set of construction documents .
[A] 106.4 Retention of construction documents.
One set of construction documents shall be retained by the fire code official for a period of not less than 180 days from date of completion of the permitted work, or as required by state or local laws. One set of approved construction documents shall be returned to the applicant, and said set shall be kept on the site of the building or work at all times during which the work authorized thereby is in progress.➡
Section 107 Temporary Structures, Uses, Equipment and Systems
[A]
107.1
General.
The fire code official is authorized to issue a permit for temporary structures, uses, equipment or systems as required in Sections 105.5 and
105.6. Such permits shall be limited as to time of service, but shall not be permitted for more than 180 days. The fire code official is authorized to grant extensions for demonstrated cause.
[A]
107.2
Conformance.
Temporary uses, equipment and systems shall conform to the requirements of this code as necessary to ensure health, safety and general welfare.
[A]
107.3 Temporary service utilities.
The fire code official is authorized to give permission to temporarily supply service utilities in accordance with Section 111.
[A]
107.4 Termination of approval.
The fire code official is authorized to terminate such permit for temporary uses, equipment or systems and to order the same to be discontinued.
Section 108 Fees
[A]
108.1 Fees.
A permit shall not be issued until the fees have been paid, nor shall an amendment to a permit be released until the additional fee, if any, has been paid.
[A]
108.2 Schedule of permit fees.
Where a permit is required, a fee for each permit shall be paid as required, in accordance with the schedule as established by the applicable governing authority.
108.3 Permit valuations.
The applicant for a permit shall provide an estimated value of the work for which the permit is being issued at the time of application. Such estimated valuations shall include the total value of work, including materials and labor, for which the permit is being issued, such as electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing equipment and permanent systems. Where, in the opinion of the fire code official, the valuation is underestimated, the permit shall be denied unless the applicant can show detailed estimates acceptable to  the fire code official. The fire code official shall have the authority to adjust the final valuation for permit fees.
[A]
108.4 Work commencing before permit issuance.
A person who commences any work, activity or operation regulated by this code before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to a fee established by the applicable governing authority, which shall be in addition to the required permit fees.
[A]
108.5 Related fees.
The payment of the fee for the construction, alteration, removal or demolition of work done in connection to or concurrently with the work or activity authorized by a permit shall not relieve the applicant or holder of the permit from the payment of other fees that are prescribed by law.
[A]
108.6 Refunds.
The applicable governing authority is authorized to establish a refund policy.
Section 109 Inspections
[A] 109.1 Inspection authority.
The fire code official is authorized to enter and examine any building, structure, marine vessel, vehicle or premises in accordance with Section 104.4 for the purpose of enforcing this code.
[A]
109.2 Inspections.
The fire code official is authorized to conduct such inspections as are deemed necessary to determine the extent of compliance with the provisions of this code and to approve reports of inspection by approved agencies or individuals. Reports of such inspections shall be prepared and submitted in writing for review and approval. Inspection reports shall be certified by a responsible officer of such approved agency or by the responsible individual. The fire code official is authorized to engage such expert opinion as deemed necessary to report on unusual, detailed or complex technical issues subject to the approval of the governing body.
[A]
109.2.1 Inspection requests.
It shall be the duty of the holder of the permit or their duly authorized agent to notify the fire code official when work is ready for inspection. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to provide access to and means for inspections of such work that are required by this code.
[A]
109.2.2 Approval required.
Work shall not be done beyond the point indicated in each successive inspection without first obtaining the approval of the fire code official. The fire code official, on notification, shall make the requested inspections and shall either indicate the portion of the construction that is satisfactory as completed, or notify the permit holder or his or her agent wherein the same fails to comply with this code. Any portions that do not comply shall be corrected, and such portion shall not be covered or concealed until authorized by the fire code official.
[A]
109.3 Concealed work.
It shall be the duty of the permit applicant to cause the work to remain visible and able to be accessed for inspection purposes. Where any installation subject to inspection prior to use is covered or concealed without having first been inspected, the fire code official shall have the authority to require that such work be made visible and able to be accessed for inspection. Neither the fire code official nor the jurisdiction shall be liable for expense entailed in the removal or replacement of any material required to allow inspection.
[A]
109.4 Approvals.
Approval as the result of an inspection shall not be construed to be an approval of a violation of the provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction. Inspections presuming to give authority to violate or cancel provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid.
Section 110 Maintenance
[A]
110.1 Maintenance of safeguards.
Where any device, equipment, system, condition, arrangement, level of protection, or any other feature is required for compliance with the provisions of this code, or otherwise installed, such device, equipment, system, condition, arrangement, level of protection, or other feature shall thereafter be continuously maintained in accordance with this code and applicable referenced standards.
[A]
110.2 Testing and operation.
Equipment requiring periodic testing or operation to ensure maintenance shall be tested or operated as specified in this code.
[A]
110.2.1 Reinspection and testing.
Where any work or installation does not pass an initial test or inspection, the necessary corrections shall be made so as to achieve compliance with this code. The work or installation shall then be resubmitted to the fire code official for inspection and testing.
[A]
110.3 Recordkeeping.
A record of periodic inspections, tests, servicing and other operations and maintenance shall be maintained on the premises or other approved location for not less than 3 years, or a different period of time where specified in this code or referenced standards. Records shall be made available for inspection by the fire code official, and a copy of the records shall be provided to the fire code official on request.The fire code official is authorized to prescribe the form and format of such recordkeeping. The fire code official is authorized to require that certain required records be filed with the fire code official.
[A]
110.4 Supervision.
Maintenance and testing shall be under the supervision of a responsible person who shall ensure that such maintenance and testing are conducted at specified intervals in accordance with this code.
110.5 Rendering equipment inoperable.
Portable or fixed fire-extinguishing systems or devices, and fire-warning systems, shall be provided with ready access and shall not be rendered inoperative, except as necessary during emergencies, maintenance, repairs, alterations, drills or prescribed testing.
[A]
110.6 Overcrowding.
Overcrowding or admittance of any person beyond the approved capacity of a building or a portion thereof shall not be allowed. The fire code official, on finding any overcrowding conditions or obstructions in aisles, passageways or other means of egress, or on finding any condition that constitutes a life safety hazard, shall be authorized to cause the event to be stopped until such condition or obstruction is corrected.
Section 111 Service Utilities
[A]
111.1 Authority to disconnect service utilities.
The fire code official shall have the authority to authorize disconnection of utility service to the building, structure or system in order to safely execute emergency operations or to eliminate an immediate hazard. The fire code official shall notify the serving utility and, where possible, the owner or the owner’s authorized agent and the occupant of the building, structure or service system of the decision to disconnect prior to taking such action. If not notified prior to disconnection, then the owner, the owner’s authorized agent or occupant of the building, structure or service system shall be notified in writing as soon as practical thereafter.
Section 112 Means of Appeals
[A]
112.1
General.
In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations made by the fire code official relative to the application and interpretation of this code, there shall be and is hereby created a board of appeals. The board of appeals shall be appointed by the applicable governing authority and shall hold office at its pleasure. The board shall adopt rules of procedure for conducting its business and shall render all decisions and findings in writing to the appellant with a duplicate copy to the fire code official.
[A]
112.2 Limitations on authority.
An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply or an equivalent or better form of construction is proposed. The board shall not have authority to waive requirements of this
code.
[A]
112.3 Qualifications.
The board of appeals shall consist of members who are qualified by experience and training on matters pertaining to the provisions of this code and are not employees of the jurisdiction.
[A]
112.4 Administration.
The fire code official shall take action without delay in accordance with the decision of the board.
Section 113 Violations
[A]
113.1 Unlawful acts.
It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to erect, construct, alter, repair, remove, demolish or utilize a building, occupancy, premises or system regulated by this code, or cause same to be done, in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of this code.
[A]
113.2 Owner/occupant responsibility.
Correction and abatement of violations of this code shall be the responsibility of the owner or the owner's authorized agent. Where an occupant creates, or allows to be created, hazardous conditions in violation of this code, the occupant shall be held responsible for the abatement of such hazardous conditions.
[A]
113.3 Notice of violation.
Where the fire code official finds a building, premises, vehicle, storage facility or outdoor area that is in violation of this code, the fire code official is authorized to prepare a written notice of violation describing the conditions deemed unsafe and, where compliance is not immediate, specifying a time for reinspection.
[A]
113.3.1 Service.
A notice of violation issued pursuant to this code shall be served on the owner, the owner's authorized agent, operator, occupant or other person responsible for the condition or violation, either by personal service, mail or by delivering the same to, and leaving it with, some person of responsibility on the premises. For unattended or abandoned locations, a copy of such notice of violation shall be posted on the premises in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to such premises and the notice of violation shall be mailed by certified mail with return receipt requested or a certificate of mailing, to the last known address of the owner, the owner's authorized agent, or occupant.
[A]
113.3.2 Compliance with orders and notices.
A notice of violation issued or served as provided by this code shall be complied with by the owner, the owner’s authorized agent, operator, occupant or other person responsible for the condition or violation to which the notice of violation pertains.
[A]
113.3.3 Prosecution of violations.
If the notice of violation is not complied with promptly, the fire code official is authorized to request the legal counsel of the jurisdiction to institute the appropriate legal proceedings at law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate such violation or to require removal or termination of the unlawful occupancy of the structure in violation of the provisions of this code or of the order or direction made pursuant hereto.
[A]
113.3.4 Unauthorized tampering.
Signs, tags or seals posted or affixed by the fire code official shall not be mutilated, destroyed or tampered with, or removed, without authorization from the fire code official.
[A]
113.4 Violation penalties.
Persons who shall violate a provision of this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall erect, install, alter, repair or do work in violation of the approved construction documents or directive of the fire code official, or of a permit or certificate used under provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a [SPECIFY OFFENSE], punishable by a fine of not more than [AMOUNT] dollars or by imprisonment not exceeding [NUMBER OF DAYS], or both such fine and imprisonment. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
[A]
113.4.1 Abatement of violation.
In addition to the imposition of the penalties herein described, the fire code official is authorized to institute appropriate action to prevent unlawful construction or to restrain, correct or abate a violation; or to prevent illegal occupancy of a structure or premises; or to stop an illegal act, conduct of business or occupancy of a structure on or about any premises.
Section 114 Stop Work Order
[A]
114.1 Authority.
Where the fire code official finds any work regulated by this code being performed in a manner contrary to the provisions of this code, or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, the fire code official is authorized to issue a stop work order.
[A]
114.2 Issuance.
The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, the owner’s authorized agent or the person performing the work. Upon issuance of a stop work order, the cited work shall immediately cease. The stop work order shall state the reason for the order and the conditions under which the cited work is authorized to resume.
[A]
114.3 Emergencies.
Where an emergency exists, the fire code official shall not be required to give a written notice prior to stopping the work.
[A]
114.4 Failure to comply.
Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to fines established by the authority having jurisdiction.
Section 115 Unsafe Structures or Equipment
[A]
115.1 General.
If during the inspection of a premises, a structure, or any building system, in whole or in part, constitutes a clear and inimical threat to human life, safety or health, the fire code official shall issue such notice or orders to remove or remedy the conditions as shall be deemed necessary in accordance with this section, and shall refer the building to the building official for any repairs, alterations, remodeling, removing or demolition required.
[A]
115.1.1 Unsafe conditions.
Structures or existing equipment that are or hereafter become unsafe, insanitary or deficient because of inadequate means of egress, inadequate light and ventilation, or that constitute a fire hazard, are otherwise dangerous to human life or the public welfare, or involve illegal or improper occupancy or inadequate maintenance, shall be deemed an unsafe condition. Unsafe structures shall be taken down and removed or made safe, as the fire code official deems necessary and as provided for in this section. A vacant structure that is not secured against unauthorized entry shall be deemed unsafe.
[A]
115.1.2 Structural hazards.
Where an apparent structural hazard is caused by the faulty installation, operation or malfunction of any of the items or devices governed by this code, the fire code official shall immediately notify the building code official in accordance with Section 115.1.
[A]
115.2 Evacuation.
The fire code official or the fire department official in charge of an incident shall be authorized to order the immediate evacuation of any occupied structure deemed unsafe where such structure has hazardous conditions that pose an imminent danger to structure occupants. Persons so notified shall immediately leave the structure or premises and shall not enter or re-enter until authorized to do so by the fire code official or the fire department official in charge of the incident.
[A]
115.3 Record.
The fire code official shall cause a report to be filed on an unsafe condition. The report shall state the occupancy of the structure and the nature of the unsafe condition.
[A]
115.4 Notice.
If an unsafe condition is found, the fire code official shall serve on the owner of the structure or the owner’s authorized agent a written notice that describes the condition deemed unsafe and specifies the required repairs or improvements to be made to abate the unsafe condition, or requires the unsafe structure to be demolished within a stipulated time. Such notice shall require the person thus notified to declare immediately to the fire code official acceptance or rejection of the terms of the order.
[A]
115.5 Method of service.
Such notice shall be deemed properly served where a copy thereof is served in accordance with one of the following methods:1.A copy is delivered to the owner personally.2.A copy is sent by certified or registered mail addressed to the owner at the last known address with return receipt requested.3.A copy is delivered in any other manner as prescribed by local law. If the certified or registered letter is returned showing that the letter was not delivered, a copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by such notice. Service of such notice in the foregoing manner on the owner’s authorized agent shall constitute service of notice on the owner.
[A]
115.6 Restoration or abatement.
The structure or equipment determined to be unsafe by the fire code official is permitted to be restored to a safe condition. The owner, the owner’s authorized agent, operator or occupant of a structure, premises or equipment deemed unsafe by the fire code official shall abate or cause to be abated or corrected such unsafe conditions either by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or other approved corrective action. To the extent that repairs, alterations or additions are made or a change of occupancy occurs during the restoration of the structure, such repairs, alterations, additions or change of occupancy shall comply with the requirements of Section 105.1.5 and the International Existing Building Code.
[A]
115.7 Summary abatement.
Where conditions exist that are deemed hazardous to life and property, the fire code official or fire department official in charge of the incident is authorized to abate summarily such hazardous conditions that are in violation of this code.
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
I-Codes • 2024
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.