======================================================================
Chapter 8 Interior Finish, Decorative Materials and Furnishings
======================================================================

Chapter 7 Fire And Smoke Protection Features - International Fire Code (IFC)
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2024
International Fire Code (IFC)
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2024 International Fire Code (IFC) 2024 International Residential Code (IRC) 2024 International Building Code (IBC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
I-Codes
/
2024 International Fire Code (IFC)
Chapter 7 Fire and Smoke Protection Features
2024 International Fire Code (IFC)
favorite_border
Version:
Jun 2024
Contents
Notes
Insights
Overview
Copyright
Preface
Part I Administrative
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Chapter 2 Definitions
Part II General Safety Provisions
Chapter 3 General Requirements
Chapter 4 Emergency Planning and Preparedness
Part III Building and Equipment Design Features
Chapter 5 Fire Service Features
Chapter 6 Building Services and Systems
Chapter 7 Fire and Smoke Protection Features
Section 701 General
Section 702 Definitions
Section 703 Penetrations
Section 704 Joints and Voids
Section 705 Door and Window Openings
Section 706 Duct and Air Transfer Openings
Section 707 Concealed Spaces
Section 708 Spray Fire-Resistant Materials and Intumescent Fire-Resistant Materials
Chapter 8 Interior Finish, Decorative Materials and Furnishings
Chapter 9 Fire Protection and Life Safety Systems
Chapter 10 Means of Egress
Chapter 11 Construction Requirements for Existing Buildings
Chapter 12 Energy Systems
Chapters 13–19 Reserved
Part IV Special Occupancies and Operations
Chapter 20 Aviation Facilities
Chapter 21 Dry Cleaning
Chapter 22 Combustible Dust-Producing Operations
Chapter 23 Motor Fuel-Dispensing Facilities and Repair Garages
Chapter 24 Flammable Finishes
Chapter 25 Fruit and Crop Ripening
Chapter 26 Fumigation and Insecticidal Fogging
Chapter 27 Semiconductor Fabrication Facilities
Chapter 28 Lumber Yards and Agro-Industrial, Solid Biomass and Woodworking Facilities
Chapter 29 Manufacture of Organic Coatings
Chapter 30 Industrial Ovens
Chapter 31 Tents, Temporary Special Event Structures and Other Membrane Structure
Chapter 32 High-Piled Combustible Storage
Chapter 33 Fire Safety During Construction and Demolition
Chapter 34 Tire Rebuilding and Tire Storage
Chapter 35 Welding and Other Hot Work
Chapter 36 Marinas
Chapter 37 Combustible Fibers
Chapter 38 Higher Education Laboratories
Chapter 39 Processing and Extraction Facilities
Chapter 40 Storage of Distilled Spirits and Wines
Chapter 41 Temporary Heating and Cooking Operation
Chapters 42-49 Reserved
Part V Hazardous Materials
Chapter 50 Hazardous Materials—General Provisions
Chapter 51 Aerosols
Chapter 52 Reserved
Chapter 53 Compressed Gases
Chapter 54 Corrosive Materials
Chapter 55 Cryogenic Fluids
Chapter 56 Explosives and Fireworks
Chapter 57 Flammable and Combustible Liquids
Chapter 58 Flammable Gases and Flammable Cryogenic Fluids
Chapter 59 Flammable Solids
Chapter 60 Highly Toxic and Toxic Materials
Chapter 61 Liquefied Petroleum Gases
Chapter 62 Organic Peroxides
Chapter 63 Oxidizers, Oxidizing Gases and Oxidizing Cryogenic Fluids
Chapter 64 Pyrophoric Materials
Chapter 65 Pyroxylin (Cellulose Nitrate) Plastics
Chapter 66 Unstable (Reactive) Materials
Chapter 67 Water-Reactive Solids and Liquids
Chapters 68-79 Reserved
Part VI Referenced Standards
Chapter 80 Referenced Standards
Part VII Appendices
Appendix A Board of Appeals
Appendix B Fire-Flow Requirements for Buildings
Appendix C Fire Hydrant Locations and Distribution
Appendix D Fire Apparatus Access Roads
Appendix E Hazard Categories
Appendix F Hazard Ranking
Appendix G Cryogenic Fluids—Weight and Volume Equivalents
Appendix H Hazardous Materials Management Plan (Hmmp) and Hazardous Materials Inventory Statement (Hmis) Instructions
Appendix I Fire Protection Systems—Noncompliant Conditions
Appendix J Building Information Sign
Appendix K Construction Requirements for Existing Ambulatory Care Facilities
Appendix L Requirements for Firefighter Air Replenishment Systems
Appendix M High-Rise Buildings—Retroactive Automatic Sprinkler Requirement
Appendix N Indoor Trade Shows and Exhibitions
Appendix O Valet Trash and Recycling Collection in Group R-2 Occupancies
Index
Content Updates—Version 2
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
Chapter 7 Fire and Smoke Protection Features
User notes:
About this chapter: Chapter 7 provides requirements to maintain the fire-resistance ratings of building elements and to limit fire spread. Section 701 addresses the maintenance of and owner’s responsibility for construction elements such as fire barriers and smoke barriers. The rest of the chapter deals with various aspects that also must be maintained to achieve overall fire resistance of the main fire- and smoke-resistive features. These include penetrations, joint protection, door and window openings, and duct and air transfer opening protection.
Section 701 General
CDP
701.1 Scope.
CDP
The provisions of this chapter shall govern the inspection and maintenance of the materials, systems and assemblies used for structural fire resistance, fire-resistance-rated construction separation of adjacent spaces and construction installed to resist the passage of smoke to safeguard against the spread of fire and smoke within a building and the spread of fire to or from buildings. New buildings shall comply with the International Building Code .
701.2 Fire-resistance-rated construction.
CDP
The fire-resistance rating of the following fire-resistance-rated construction shall be maintained:1.Structural members.2.Exterior walls.3.Fire walls, fire barriers, fire partitions.4.Horizontal assemblies.5.Shaft enclosures.
701.2.1 Hanging displays.
The hanging and displaying of salable goods and other decorative materials from acoustical ceiling systems that are part of a fire-resistance-rated horizontal assembly shall be prohibited.
701.3 Smoke barriers.
CDP
The fire-resistance rating and smoke-resistant characteristics of smoke barriers shall be maintained.
701.4 Smoke partitions.
CDP
The smoke-resistant characteristics of smoke partitions shall be maintained.
701.5 Maintaining protection.
CDP
Materials, systems and devices used to repair or protect breaches and openings in fire-resistance-rated construction and construction installed to resist the passage of smoke shall be maintained in accordance with Sections 703 through 707.
701.6 Owner’s responsibility.
INSIGHTS
The owner shall maintain an inventory of all required fire-resistance-rated construction, construction installed to resist the passage of smoke and the construction included in Sections 703 through
707 and Sections 602.4.1 and 602.4.2 of the International Building Code. Such construction shall be visually inspected by the owner annually and properly repaired, restored or replaced where damaged, altered, breached or penetrated. Where concealed, such elements shall not be required to be visually inspected by the owner unless the concealed space is accessible by the removal or movement of a panel, access door, ceiling tile or similar movable entry to the space. INSIGHTS (2)
701.6.1
Recordkeeping.
INSIGHTS
Records of all required system inspections, testing, repairs and maintenance shall be maintained in accordance with Section 110.3.
INSIGHTS (2)
701.7 Unsafe conditions.
Where any components in this chapter are not maintained and do not function as intended or do not have the fire resistance or the resistance to the passage of smoke required by the code under which the building was constructed, remodeled or altered, such component(s) or portion thereof shall be deemed an unsafe condition, in accordance with Section 115.1.1. Components or portions thereof determined to be unsafe shall be repaired or replaced to conform to that code under which the building was constructed, remodeled or altered or this chapter, as deemed appropriate by the fire code official.Where the condition of components is such that any building, structure or portion thereof presents an imminent danger to the occupants of the building, structure or portion thereof, the fire code official shall act in accordance with Section 115.2.
Section 702 Definitions
CDP
702.1 Definitions.
CDP
The following terms are defined in Chapter 2:DRAFTSTOP. FIREBLOCKING. MEMBRANE-PENETRATION FIRESTOP SYSTEM. OPENING PROTECTIVE. SMOKE BARRIER. SMOKE PARTITION. THROUGH-PENETRATION FIRESTOP SYSTEM.
Section 703 Penetrations
703.1 Maintaining protection.
Materials and firestop systems used to protect membrane and through penetrations in fire-resistance-rated construction and construction installed to resist the passage of smoke shall be maintained. The materials and firestop systems shall be securely attached to or bonded to the construction being penetrated with no openings visible through or into the cavity of the construction. Where the system design number is known, the system shall be inspected to the listing criteria and manufacturer’s installation instructions.
703.2 Repair of penetrations.
Where damaged, materials used to protect membrane- and through-penetrations shall be replaced or restored with materials or systems that meet or exceed the code requirements applicable at the time when the assembly was constructed, remodeled or altered.
Section 704 Joints and Voids
704.1 Maintaining protection.
Where required when the building was originally constructed, materials and systems used to protect joints and voids in the following locations shall be maintained. The materials and systems shall be securely attached to or bonded to the adjacent construction, without openings visible through the construction.1.Joints in or between fire-resistance-rated walls, floors or floor/ceiling assemblies and roof or roof/ceiling assemblies.2.Joints in smoke barriers.3.Voids at the intersection of a horizontal floor assembly and an exterior curtain wall.4.Voids at the intersection of a horizontal smoke barrier and an exterior curtain wall.5.Voids at the intersection of a nonfire-resistance-rated floor assembly and an exterior curtain wall.6.Voids at the intersection of a vertical fire barrier and an exterior curtain wall.7.Voids at the intersection of a vertical fire barrier and a nonfire-resistance-rated roof assembly. Unprotected joints and voids do not need to be protected where such joints and voids were not required to be protected when the building was originally constructed. Where the system design number is known, the system shall be inspected to the listing criteria and manufacturer’s installation instructions.
704.2 Repair of joints and voids.
Where damaged, materials used to protect joints and voids shall be replaced or restored with materials or systems that meet or exceed the code requirements applicable at the time when the assembly was constructed, remodeled or altered.
704.3 Opening protectives.
Where openings are required to be protected, opening protectives shall be maintained self-closing or automatic-closing by smoke detection. Existing fusible-link-type automatic door-closing devices are permitted if the fusible link rating does not exceed 135°F (57°C).
Section 705 Door and Window Openings
705.1 General.
Where required when the building was originally constructed, opening protectives installed in fire-resistance-rated assemblies, smoke barriers and smoke partitions shall be inspected and maintained in accordance with this section.
705.2 Inspection and maintenance.
Opening protectives in fire-resistance-rated assemblies shall be inspected and maintained in accordance with NFPA 80. Opening protectives in smoke barriers shall be inspected and maintained in accordance with NFPA 80 and NFPA 105. Openings in smoke partitions shall be inspected and maintained in accordance with NFPA 105. Fire doors and smoke and draft control doors shall not be blocked, obstructed, or otherwise made inoperable. Fusible links shall be replaced promptly whenever fused or damaged. Opening protectives and smoke and draft control doors shall not be modified.
705.2.1 Labeling requirements.
Where approved by the fire code official, the application of field-applied labels associated with the maintenance of opening protectives shall follow the requirements of the approved third-party certification organization accredited for listing the opening protective.
705.2.2 Signs.
Where required by the fire code official, a sign shall be permanently displayed on or near each fire door in letters not less than 1 inch (25 mm) high to read as follows:1.For doors designed to be kept normally open: “FIRE DOOR—DO NOT BLOCK.”2.For doors designed to be kept normally closed: “FIRE DOOR—KEEP CLOSED.”
705.2.3 Hold-open devices and closers.
Hold-open devices and automatic door closers, where provided, shall be maintained. During the period that such device is out of service for repairs, the door it operates shall remain in the closed position.
705.2.4 Door operation.
CDP
Swinging fire doors shall close from the full-open position and latch automatically.
705.2.5 Smoke- and heat-activated doors.
Smoke-activated doors shall be maintained to self-close or automatically close upon detection of smoke. Existing fusible-link-type automatic door-closing devices are permitted if the fusible link rating does not exceed 135°F (57°C).
705.2.6 Testing.
INSIGHTS
Horizontal and vertical sliding and rolling fire doors shall be inspected and tested annually to confirm proper operation and full closure. Records of inspections and testing shall be maintained. INSIGHTS (2)
705.2.7 Periodic inspection and testing of rolling steel fire doors.
INSIGHTS
Rolling steel fire doors shall be inspected and tested annually by a trained rolling steel fire door systems technician in accordance with the applicable provisions of NFPA 80. Records of inspections and testing shall be maintained.
INSIGHTS (3)
Section 706 Duct and Air Transfer Openings
706.1 Maintaining protection.
Dampers protecting ducts and air transfer openings shall be inspected and maintained in accordance with NFPA 80 and NFPA 105. Other products or materials used to protect the openings for ducts and air transfer openings shall be securely attached to or bonded to the construction containing the duct or air transfer opening, without visible openings through or into the cavity of the construction. Any damaged products or materials protecting duct and air transfer openings shall be repaired, restored or replaced.
706.2 Unprotected openings.
Unprotected duct and air transfer openings in fire-resistance-rated construction and construction installed to resist the passage of smoke shall be protected so as to comply with requirements that were in effect when the building was constructed.
Section 707 Concealed Spaces
707.1 Fireblocking and draftstopping.
INSIGHTS
Required fireblocking and draftstopping in combustible concealed spaces shall be maintained to provide continuity and integrity of the construction. INSIGHTS (2)
Section 708 Spray Fire-resistant Materials and Intumescent Fire-Resistant Materials
CDP
708.1 Maintaining protection.
CDP
Where required when the building was originally permitted and constructed, spray fire-resistant materials and intumescent fire-resistant materials shall be visually inspected to verify that the materials do not exhibit exposure to the substrate.
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
I-Codes • 2024
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.