======================================================================
Appendix F Hazard Ranking
======================================================================

Appendix E Hazard Categories - International Fire Code (IFC)
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2024
International Fire Code (IFC)
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2024 International Fire Code (IFC) 2024 International Residential Code (IRC) 2024 International Building Code (IBC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
I-Codes
/
2024 International Fire Code (IFC)
Appendix E Hazard Categories
2024 International Fire Code (IFC)
favorite_border
Version:
Jun 2024
Contents
Notes
Insights
Overview
Copyright
Preface
Part I Administrative
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Chapter 2 Definitions
Part II General Safety Provisions
Chapter 3 General Requirements
Chapter 4 Emergency Planning and Preparedness
Part III Building and Equipment Design Features
Chapter 5 Fire Service Features
Chapter 6 Building Services and Systems
Chapter 7 Fire and Smoke Protection Features
Chapter 8 Interior Finish, Decorative Materials and Furnishings
Chapter 9 Fire Protection and Life Safety Systems
Chapter 10 Means of Egress
Chapter 11 Construction Requirements for Existing Buildings
Chapter 12 Energy Systems
Chapters 13–19 Reserved
Part IV Special Occupancies and Operations
Chapter 20 Aviation Facilities
Chapter 21 Dry Cleaning
Chapter 22 Combustible Dust-Producing Operations
Chapter 23 Motor Fuel-Dispensing Facilities and Repair Garages
Chapter 24 Flammable Finishes
Chapter 25 Fruit and Crop Ripening
Chapter 26 Fumigation and Insecticidal Fogging
Chapter 27 Semiconductor Fabrication Facilities
Chapter 28 Lumber Yards and Agro-Industrial, Solid Biomass and Woodworking Facilities
Chapter 29 Manufacture of Organic Coatings
Chapter 30 Industrial Ovens
Chapter 31 Tents, Temporary Special Event Structures and Other Membrane Structure
Chapter 32 High-Piled Combustible Storage
Chapter 33 Fire Safety During Construction and Demolition
Chapter 34 Tire Rebuilding and Tire Storage
Chapter 35 Welding and Other Hot Work
Chapter 36 Marinas
Chapter 37 Combustible Fibers
Chapter 38 Higher Education Laboratories
Chapter 39 Processing and Extraction Facilities
Chapter 40 Storage of Distilled Spirits and Wines
Chapter 41 Temporary Heating and Cooking Operation
Chapters 42-49 Reserved
Part V Hazardous Materials
Chapter 50 Hazardous Materials—General Provisions
Chapter 51 Aerosols
Chapter 52 Reserved
Chapter 53 Compressed Gases
Chapter 54 Corrosive Materials
Chapter 55 Cryogenic Fluids
Chapter 56 Explosives and Fireworks
Chapter 57 Flammable and Combustible Liquids
Chapter 58 Flammable Gases and Flammable Cryogenic Fluids
Chapter 59 Flammable Solids
Chapter 60 Highly Toxic and Toxic Materials
Chapter 61 Liquefied Petroleum Gases
Chapter 62 Organic Peroxides
Chapter 63 Oxidizers, Oxidizing Gases and Oxidizing Cryogenic Fluids
Chapter 64 Pyrophoric Materials
Chapter 65 Pyroxylin (Cellulose Nitrate) Plastics
Chapter 66 Unstable (Reactive) Materials
Chapter 67 Water-Reactive Solids and Liquids
Chapters 68-79 Reserved
Part VI Referenced Standards
Chapter 80 Referenced Standards
Part VII Appendices
Appendix A Board of Appeals
Appendix B Fire-Flow Requirements for Buildings
Appendix C Fire Hydrant Locations and Distribution
Appendix D Fire Apparatus Access Roads
Appendix E Hazard Categories
Section E101 General
Section E102 Hazard Categories
Section E103 Evaluation of Hazards
Section E104 Ghs Hazardous Materials Definitions
Section E105 Referenced Standards
Appendix F Hazard Ranking
Appendix G Cryogenic Fluids—Weight and Volume Equivalents
Appendix H Hazardous Materials Management Plan (Hmmp) and Hazardous Materials Inventory Statement (Hmis) Instructions
Appendix I Fire Protection Systems—Noncompliant Conditions
Appendix J Building Information Sign
Appendix K Construction Requirements for Existing Ambulatory Care Facilities
Appendix L Requirements for Firefighter Air Replenishment Systems
Appendix M High-Rise Buildings—Retroactive Automatic Sprinkler Requirement
Appendix N Indoor Trade Shows and Exhibitions
Appendix O Valet Trash and Recycling Collection in Group R-2 Occupancies
Index
Content Updates—Version 2
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
Appendix E Hazard Categories
This appendix is for information purposes and is not intended for adoption.
User notes:
About this appendix: Appendix E contains guidance for designers, engineers, architects, code officials, plans reviewers and inspectors in the classifying of hazardous materials so that proposed designs can be evaluated intelligently and accurately. The descriptive materials and explanations of hazardous materials and how to report and evaluate them on a Safety Data Sheet (SDS) are intended to be instructional as well as informative. This appendix also provides a comparative tool to better understand how the classifications in the International Codes (I-Codes) relate to the UN Recommendations on the Transport of Dangerous Goods, Model Regulations and UN Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS). Code development reminder: Code change proposals to this appendix will be considered by the IFC Code Development Committee during the 2024 (Group A) Code Development Cycle.
Section E101 General
E101.1 Scope.
This appendix provides information, explanations and examples to illustrate and clarify the hazard categories contained in Chapter 50 of the International Fire Code. The hazard categories are based on the DOL 29 CFR. Where numerical classifications are included, they are in accordance with nationally recognized standards.This appendix should not be used as the sole means of hazardous materials classification.
Section E102 Hazard Categories
E102.1 Physical hazards.
Materials classified in this section pose a physical hazard.
E102.1.1 Explosives and blasting agents.
The current UN/DOT classification system recognized by international authorities, the Department of Defense and others classifies all explosives as Class 1 materials. They are then divided into six separate divisions to indicate their relative hazard. There is not a direct correlation between the designations used by the old DOT system and those used by the current system nor is there correlation with the system (high and low) established by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (BATF). Table 5604.3 provides some guidance with regard to the current categories and their relationship to the old categories. Some items appear in more than one division, depending on factors such as the degree of confinement or separation, by type of packaging, storage configuration or state of assembly.In order to determine the level of hazard presented by explosive materials, testing to establish quantitatively their explosive nature is required. There are numerous test methods that have been used to establish the character of an explosive material. Standardized tests, required for finished goods containing explosives or explosive materials in a packaged form suitable for shipment or storage, have been established by UN/DOT and BATF. However, these tests do not consider key elements that should be examined in a manufacturing situation. In manufacturing operations, the condition and/or the state of a material may vary within the process. Potentially, material classification and the requirements used to determine that classification during manufacturing will differ from the classification of the same material found in finished goods. A classification methodology must be used that recognizes the hazards commensurate with the application to the variable physical conditions as well as potential variations of physical character and type of explosive under consideration.Test methods or guidelines for hazard classification of energetic materials used for in-process operations shall be approved by the fire code official. Test methods used shall be DOD, BATF, UN/DOT or other approved criteria. The results of such testing shall become a portion of the files of the jurisdiction and be included as an independent section of any Hazardous Materials Management Plan (HMMP) required by Section 5605.2.1. Also see Section 104.2.2.Examples of materials in various Divisions are as follows:1.Division 1.1 (High Explosives). Consists of explosives that have a mass explosion hazard. A mass explosion is one that affects almost the entire pile of material instantaneously. Includes substances that, where tested in accordance with approved methods, can be caused to detonate by means of a blasting cap where unconfined or will transition from deflagration to a detonation where confined or unconfined. Examples: dynamite, TNT, nitroglycerine, C-3, HMX, RDX, encased explosives, military ammunition.2.Division 1.2 (Low Explosives). Consists of explosives that have a projection hazard, but not a mass explosion hazard. Examples: nondetonating encased explosives, military ammunition and the like.3.Division 1.3 (Low Explosives). Consists of explosives that have a fire hazard and either a minor blast hazard or a minor projection hazard or both, but not a mass explosion hazard. The major hazard is radiant heat or violent burning, or both. Can be deflagrated where confined. Examples: smokeless powder, propellant explosives, display fireworks.4.Division 1.4. Consists of explosives that pose a minor explosion hazard. The explosive effects are largely confined to the package and no projection of fragments of appreciable size or range is expected. An internal fire must not cause virtually instantaneous explosion of almost the entire contents of the package. Examples: squibs (nondetonating igniters), explosive actuators, explosive trains (low-level detonating cord).5.Division 1.5 (Blasting Agents). Consists of very insensitive explosives. This division comprises substances that have a mass explosion hazard, but are so insensitive that there is very little probability of initiation or of transition from burning to detonation under normal conditions of transport. Materials are not cap sensitive; however, they are mass detonating where provided with sufficient input. Examples: oxidizer and liquid fuel slurry mixtures and gels, ammonium nitrate combined with fuel oil.6.Division 1.6. Consists of extremely insensitive articles that do not have a mass explosive hazard. This division comprises articles that contain only extremely insensitive detonating substances and that demonstrate a negligible probability of accidental initiation or propagation. Although this category of materials has been defined, the primary application is currently limited to military uses. Examples: Low vulnerability military weapons. Explosives in each division are assigned a compatibility group letter by the Associate Administrator for Hazardous Materials Safety (DOT) based on criteria specified by DOTn 49 CFR. Compatibility group letters are used to specify the controls for the transportation and storage related to various materials to prevent an increase in hazard that might result if certain types of explosives were stored or transported together. Altogether, there are 35 possible classification codes for explosives, for example, 1.1A, 1.3C, 1.4S.
E102.1.2 Compressed gases.
Examples include:1.Flammable: acetylene, carbon monoxide, ethane, ethylene, hydrogen, methane. Ammonia will ignite and burn although its flammable range is too narrow for it to fit the definition of “Flammable gas.” For binary mixtures where the hazardous component is diluted with a nonflammable gas, the mixture shall be categorized in accordance with CGA P-23.2.Oxidizing: oxygen, ozone, oxides of nitrogen, chlorine and fluorine. Chlorine and fluorine do not contain oxygen but reaction with flammables is similar to that of oxygen.3.Corrosive: ammonia, hydrogen chloride, fluorine.4.Highly toxic: arsine, cyanogen, fluorine, germane, hydrogen cyanide, nitric oxide, phosphine, hydrogen selenide, stibine.5.Toxic: chlorine, hydrogen fluoride, hydrogen sulfide, phosgene, silicon tetrafluoride.6.Inert (chemically unreactive): argon, helium, krypton, neon, nitrogen, xenon.7.Pyrophoric: diborane, dichloroborane, phosphine, silane.8.Unstable (reactive): butadiene (unstabilized), ethylene oxide, vinyl chloride.
E102.1.3 Flammable and combustible liquids.
Examples include:1.Flammable liquids. Class IA liquids shall include those having flash points below 73°F (23°C) and having a boiling point at or below 100°F (38°C). Class IB liquids shall include those having flash points below 73°F (23°C) and having a boiling point at or above 100°F (38°C). Class IC liquids shall include those having flash points at or above 73°F (23°C) and below 100°F (38°C).2.Combustible liquids. Class II liquids shall include those having flash points at or above 100°F (38°C) and below 140°F (60°C). Class IIIA liquids shall include those having flash points at or above 140°F (60°C) and below 200°F (93°C). Class IIIB liquids shall include those liquids having flash points at or above 200°F (93°C).
E102.1.4 Flammable solids.
Examples include:1.Organic solids: camphor, cellulose nitrate, naphthalene.2.Inorganic solids: decaborane, lithium amide, phosphorous heptasulfide, phosphorous sesquisulfide, potassium sulfide, anhydrous sodium sulfide, sulfur.3.Combustible metals (except dusts and powders): cesium, magnesium, zirconium.
E102.1.5 Combustible dusts and powders.
Finely divided solids that could be dispersed in air as a dust cloud: wood sawdust, plastics, coal, flour, powdered metals (few exceptions).
E102.1.6 Combustible fibers.
See the definition of combustible fibers in Section 202.
E102.1.7 Oxidizers.
INSIGHTS
Examples include:1.Gases: oxygen, ozone, oxides of nitrogen, fluorine and chlorine (reaction with flammables is similar to that of oxygen).2.Liquids: bromine, hydrogen peroxide, nitric acid, perchloric acid, sulfuric acid.3.Solids: chlorates, chromates, chromic acid, iodine, nitrates, nitrites, perchlorates, peroxides. INSIGHTS (2)
E102.1.7.1 Examples of liquid and solid oxidizers according to hazard.
INSIGHTS
Examples include:Class 4: ammonium perchlorate (particle size greater than 15 microns), ammonium permanganate, guanidine nitrate, hydrogen peroxide solutions more than 91 percent by weight, perchloric acid solutions more than 72.5 percent by weight, potassium superoxide, tetranitromethane.Class 3: ammonium dichromate, calcium hypochlorite (over 50 percent by weight), chloric acid (10 percent maximum concentration), hydrogen peroxide solutions (greater than 52 percent up to 91 percent), mono-(trichloro)-tetra-(monopotassium dichloro)-penta-s-triazinetrione, nitric acid, (fuming—more than 86 percent concentration), perchloric acid solutions (60 percent to 72 percent by weight), potassium bromate, potassium chlorate, potassium dichloro-s-triazinetrione (potassium dichloro-isocyanurate), potassium perchlorate (99 percent), potassium permanganate (greater than 97.5 percent), sodium bromate, sodium chlorate and sodium chlorite (over 40 percent by weight).Class 2: barium bromate, barium chlorate, barium hypochlorite, barium perchlorate, barium permanganate, 1-bromo-3- chloro-5, 5-dimethylhydantoin, calcium chlorate, calcium chlorite, calcium hypochlorite (50 percent or less by weight), calcium perchlorate, calcium permanganate, calcium peroxide (75 percent), chromium trioxide (chromic acid), copper chlorate, halane (1, 3-dichloro-5, 5-dimethylhydantoin), hydrogen peroxide (greater than 27.5 percent up to 52 percent), lead perchlorate, lithium chlorate, lithium hypochlorite (more than 39 percent available chlorine), lithium perchlorate, magnesium bromate, magnesium chlorate, magnesium perchlorate, mercurous chlorate, nitric acid (more than 40 percent but less than 86 percent), perchloric acid solutions (more than 50 percent but less than 60 percent), potassium peroxide, potassium superoxide, silver peroxide, sodium chlorite (40 percent or less by weight), sodium dichloro-s-triazinetrione anhydrous (sodium dichloroisocyanurate anhydrous), sodium perchlorate, sodium perchlorate monohydrate, sodium permanganate, sodium peroxide, sodium persulfate (99 percent), strontium chlorate, strontium perchlorate, thallium chlorate, urea hydrogen peroxide, zinc bromate, zinc chlorate and zinc permanganate.Class 1: all inorganic nitrates (unless otherwise classified), all inorganic nitrites (unless otherwise classified), ammonium persulfate, barium peroxide, hydrogen peroxide solutions (greater than 8 percent up to 27.5 percent), lead dioxide, lithium hypochlorite (39 percent or less available chlorine), lithium peroxide, magnesium peroxide, manganese dioxide, nitric acid (40 percent concentration or less), perchloric acid solutions (less than 50 percent by weight), potassium dichromate, potassium monopersulfate (45 percent KHSO5 or 90 percent triple salt), potassium percarbonate, potassium persulfate, sodium carbonate peroxide, sodium dichloro-s-triazinetrione dihydrate, sodium dichromate, sodium perborate (anhydrous), sodium perborate monohydrate, sodium perborate tetra-hydrate, sodium percarbonate, strontium peroxide, trichloro-s-triazinetrione (trichloroisocyanuric acid) and zinc peroxide. INSIGHTS (2)
E102.1.7.2 Oxidizer classification.
INSIGHTS
The UN’s Globally Harmonized System (GHS) is an internationally agreed upon standard of classification and labeling that utilizes prescriptive, standardized testing procedures and criteria to classify hazardous materials. Federal law (DOL 29 CFR 1910.1200 and DOTn 49 CFR 173.127) mandate that manufacturers selling, producing or transporting chemicals in the United States classify chemicals according to the GHS system and make the classifications available in product Safety Data Sheets. For the classification of solid and liquid oxidizers, GHS relies on relevant quantitative test data that measures burning rate, a key indicator of the severity of the hazard. To assist code officials, an alignment between the GHS and IFC oxidizer hazard classes is provided in Table E102.1.7.2. This alignment is provided as a tool to assist fire code officials and should not be used as the sole means for hazardous materials classification.
INSIGHTS (3)
TABLE
E102.1.7.2 OXIDIZER COMPARISON (IFC VERSUS GHS)
IFC HAZARD CLASSIFICATION
GHS HAZARD CLASSIFICATION
Oxidizer, Class 4
H271, Category 1
Oxidizer, Class 3
H271, Category 1
Oxidizer, Class 2
H272, Category 2
Oxidizer, Class 1
H272, Category 3
E102.1.8 Organic peroxides.
Organic peroxides contain the double oxygen or peroxy (-o-o) group. Some are flammable compounds and subject to explosive decomposition. They are available as:1.Liquids.2.Pastes.3.Solids (usually finely divided powders).
E102.1.8.1 Classification of organic peroxides according to hazard.
CDP
Examples include:Unclassified: Unclassified organic peroxides are capable of detonation and are regulated in accordance with Chapter 56.Class I: acetyl cyclohexane sulfonyl 60-65 percent concentration by weight, fulfonyl peroxide, benzoyl peroxide over 98 percent concentration, t-butyl hydroperoxide 90 percent, t-butyl peroxyacetate 75 percent, t-butyl peroxyisopropylcarbonate 92 percent, diisopropyl peroxydicarbonate 100 percent, di-n-propyl peroxydicarbonate 98 percent, and di-n-propyl peroxydicarbonate 85 percent.Class II: acetyl peroxide 25 percent, t-butyl hydroperoxide 70 percent (with DTBP and t-BuOH diluents), t-butyl peroxybenzoate 98 percent, t-butyl peroxy-2-ethylhexanoate 97 percent, t-butyl peroxyisobutyrate 75 percent, t-butyl peroxyisopropyl-carbonate 75 percent, t-butyl peroxypivalate 75 percent, dybenzoyl peroxydicarbonate 85 percent, di-sec-butyl peroxydicarbonate 98 percent, di-secbutyl peroxydicarbonate 75 percent, 1,1-di-(t-butylperoxy)-3,5,5-trimethyecyclohexane 95 percent, di-(2-ethythexyl) peroxydicarbonate 97 percent, 2,5-dymethyl-2-5 di (benzoylperoxy) hexane 92 percent, and peroxyacetic acid 43 percent.Class III: acetyl cyclohexane sulfonal peroxide 29 percent, benzoyl peroxide 78 percent, benzoyl peroxide paste 55 percent, benzoyl peroxide paste 50 percent peroxide/50 percent butylbenzylphthalate diluent, cumene hydroperoxide 86 percent, di- (4-butylcyclohexyl) peroxydicarbonate 98 percent, t-butyl peroxy-2-ethylhexanoate 97 percent, t-butyl peroxyneodecanoate 75 percent, decanoyl peroxide 98.5 percent, di-t-butyl peroxide 99 percent, 1,1-di-(t-butylperoxy)3,5,5-trimethylcyclohexane 75 percent, 2,4-dichlorobenzoyl peroxide 50 percent, di-isopropyl peroxydicarbonate 30 percent, 2,-5-di-methyl-2,5-di-(2- ethylhexanolyperoxy)-hexane 90 percent, 2,5-dimethyl-2,5-di-(t-butylperoxy) hexane 90 percent and methyl ethyl ketone peroxide 9 percent active oxygen diluted in dimethyl phthalate.Class IV: benzoyl peroxide 70 percent, benzoyl peroxide paste 50 percent peroxide/15 percent water/35 percent butylphthalate diluent, benzoyl peroxide slurry 40 percent, benzoyl peroxide powder 35 percent, t-butyl hydroperoxide 70 percent, (with water diluent), t-butyl peroxy-2-ethylhexanoate 50 percent, decumyl peroxide 98 percent, di-(2-ethylhexal) peroxydicarbonate 40 percent, laurel peroxide 98 percent, p-methane hydroperoxide 52.5 percent, methyl ethyl ketone peroxide 5.5 percent active oxygen and methyl ethyl ketone peroxide 9 percent active oxygen diluted in water and glycols.Class V: benzoyl peroxide 35 percent, 1,1-di-t-butyl peroxy 3,5,5-trimethylcyclohexane 40 percent, 2,5-di-(t-butyl peroxy) hexane 47 percent and 2,4-pentanedione peroxide 4 percent active oxygen.
E102.1.9 Pyrophoric materials.
Examples include:1.Gases: diborane, phosphine, silane.2.Liquids: diethylaluminum chloride, di-ethylberyllium, diethylphosphine, diethylzinc, dimethylarsine, triethylaluminum etherate, tri-ethylbismuthine, triethylboron, trimethylaluminum, trimethylgallium.3.Solids: cesium, hafnium, lithium, white or yellow phosphorous, plutonium, potassium, rubidium, sodium, thorium.
E102.1.10 Unstable (reactive) materials.
Examples include:Class 4: acetyl peroxide, dibutyl peroxide, dinitrobenzene, ethyl nitrate, peroxyacetic acid and picric acid (dry) trinitrobenzene.Class 3: hydrogen peroxide (greater than 52 percent), hydroxylamine, nitromethane, paranitroaniline, perchloric acid and tetrafluoroethylene monomer.Class 2: acrolein, acrylic acid, hydrazine, methacrylic acid, sodium perchlorate, styrene and vinyl acetate.Class 1: acetic acid, hydrogen peroxide 35 percent to 52 percent, paraldehyde and tetrahydrofuran.
E102.1.11 Water-reactive materials.
Examples include:Class 3: aluminum alkyls such as triethylaluminum, isobutylaluminum and trimethylaluminum; bromine pentafluoride, bromine trifluoride, chlorodiethylaluminium and diethylzinc.Class 2: calcium carbide, calcium metal, cyanogen bromide, lithium hydride, methyldichlorosilane, potassium metal, potassium peroxide, sodium metal, sodium peroxide, sulfuric acid and trichlorosilane.Class 1: acetic anhydride, sodium hydroxide, sulfur monochloride and titanium tetrachloride.
E102.1.12 Cryogenic fluids.
The cryogenics listed will exist as compressed gases where they are stored at ambient temperatures.1.Flammable: carbon monoxide, deuterium (heavy hydrogen), ethylene, hydrogen, methane.2.Oxidizing: fluorine, nitric oxide, oxygen.3.Corrosive: fluorine, nitric oxide.4.Inert (chemically unreactive): argon, helium, krypton, neon, nitrogen, xenon.5.Highly toxic: fluorine, nitric oxide.
E102.2 Health hazards.
Materials classified in this section pose a health hazard.
E102.2.1 Highly toxic materials.
Examples include:1.Gases: arsine, cyanogen, diborane, fluorine, germane, hydrogen cyanide, nitric oxide, nitrogen dioxide, ozone, phosphine, hydrogen selenide, stibine.2.Liquids: acrolein, acrylic acid, 2-chloroethanol (ethylene chlorohydrin), hydrazine, hydrocyanic acid, 2-methylaziridine (propylenimine), 2-methyl-acetonitrile (acetone cyanohydrin), methyl ester isocyanic acid (methyl isocyanate), nicotine, tetranitromethane and tetraethylstannane (tetraethyltin).3.Solids: (aceto) phenylmercury (phenyl mercuric acetate), 4-aminopyridine, arsenic pentoxide, arsenic trioxide, calcium cyanide, 2-chloroacetophenone, aflatoxin B, decaborane(14), mercury (II) bromide (mercuric bromide), mercury (II) chloride (corrosive mercury chloride), pentachlorophenol, methyl parathion, phosphorus (white) and sodium azide.
E102.2.2 Toxic materials.
Examples include:1.Gases: boron trichloride, boron trifluoride, chlorine, chlorine trifluoride, hydrogen fluoride, hydrogen sulfide, phosgene, silicon tetrafluoride.2.Liquids: acrylonitrile, allyl alcohol, alpha-chlorotoluene, aniline, 1-chloro-2,3-epoxypropane, chloroformic acid (allyl ester), 3-chloropropene (allyl chloride), o-cresol, crotonaldehyde, dibromomethane, diisopropylamine, diethyl ester sulfuric acid, dimethyl ester sulfuric acid, 2-furaldehyde (furfural), furfural alcohol, phosphorus chloride, phosphoryl chloride (phosphorus oxychloride) and thionyl chloride.3.Solids: acrylamide, barium chloride, barium (II) nitrate, benzidine, p-benzoquinone, beryllium chloride, cadmium chloride, cadmium oxide, chloroacetic acid, chlorophenylmercury (phenyl mercuric chloride), chromium (VI) oxide (chromic acid, solid), 2,4-dinitrotoluene, hydroquinone, mercury chloride (calomel), mercury (II) sulfate (mercuric sulfate), osmium tetroxide, oxalic acid, phenol, P-phenylenediamine, phenylhydrazine, 4-phenylmorpholine, phosphorus sulfide, potassium fluoride, potassium hydroxide, selenium (IV) disulfide and sodium fluoride.
E102.2.3 Corrosives.
Examples include:1.Acids: Examples: chromic, formic, hydrochloric (muriatic) greater than 15 percent, hydrofluoric, nitric (greater than 6 percent, perchloric, sulfuric (4 percent or more).2.Bases (alkalis): hydroxides-ammonium (greater than 10 percent), calcium, potassium (greater than 1 percent), sodium (greater than 1 percent); certain carbonates-potassium.3.Other corrosives: bromine, chlorine, fluorine, iodine, ammonia. Note: Corrosives that are oxidizers (for example, nitric acid, chlorine, fluorine), compressed gases (for example, ammonia, chlorine, fluorine), or water-reactive (for example, concentrated sulfuric acid, sodium hydroxide) are physical hazards in addition to being health hazards.
Section E103 Evaluation of Hazards
E103.1 Degree of hazard.
The degree of hazard present depends on many variables that should be considered individually and in combination. Some of these variables are as shown in Sections E103.1.1 through
E103.1.5.
E103.1.1 Chemical properties of the material.
Chemical properties of the material determine self reactions and reactions that could occur with other materials. Generally, materials within subdivisions of hazard categories will exhibit similar chemical properties. However, materials with similar chemical properties could pose very different hazards. Each individual material should be researched to determine its hazardous properties and then considered in relation to other materials that it might contact and the surrounding environment.
E103.1.2 Physical properties of the material.
Physical properties, such as whether a material is a solid, liquid or gas at ordinary temperatures and pressures, considered along with chemical properties will determine requirements for containment of the material. Specific gravity (weight of a liquid compared to water) and vapor density (weight of a gas compared to air) are both physical properties that are important in evaluating the hazards of a material.
E103.1.3 Amount and concentration of the material.
The amount of material present and its concentration must be considered along with physical and chemical properties to determine the magnitude of the hazard. Hydrogen peroxide, for example, is used as an antiseptic and a hair bleach in low concentrations (approximately 8 percent in water solution). Over 8 percent, hydrogen peroxide is classed as an oxidizer and is toxic. Above 90 percent, it is a Class 4 oxidizer “that can undergo an explosive reaction when catalyzed or exposed to heat, shock or friction,” a definition that, incidentally, places hydrogen peroxide over 90 percent concentration in the unstable (reactive) category. Small amounts at high concentrations could present a greater hazard than large amounts at low concentrations.
E103.1.3.1 Mixtures.
Gases—toxic and highly toxic gases include those gases that have an LC50 of 2,000 parts per million (ppm) or less when rats are exposed for a period of 1 hour or less. To maintain consistency with the definitions for these materials, exposure data for periods other than 1 hour must be normalized to 1 hour. To classify mixtures of compressed gases that contain one or more toxic or highly toxic components, the LC50 of the mixture must be determined. Mixtures that contain only two components are binary mixtures. Those that contain more than two components are multicomponent mixtures. Where two or more hazardous substances (components) having an LC50 below 2,000 ppm are present in a mixture, their combined effect, rather than that of the individual substance components, must be considered. The effects of the hazards present must be considered as additive, except where there is a good reason to believe that the principal effects of the different harmful substances (components) are not additive.For binary mixtures where the hazardous component is diluted with a nontoxic gas such as an inert gas, the LC50 of the mixture is estimated by use of the methodology contained in CGA P-20. The hazard zones specified in CGA P-20 are applicable for DOTn purposes and shall not be used for hazard classification.
E103.1.4 Actual use, activity or process involving the material.
The definition of handling, storage and use in closed systems refers to materials in packages or containers. Dispensing and use in open containers or systems describes situations where a material is exposed to ambient conditions or vapors are liberated to the atmosphere. Dispensing and use in open systems, then, are generally more hazardous situations than handling, storage or use in closed systems. The actual use or process could include heating, electric or other sparks, catalytic or reactive materials and many other factors that could affect the hazard and must therefore be thoroughly analyzed.
E103.1.5 Surrounding conditions.
INSIGHTS
Conditions such as other materials or processes in the area, type of construction of the structure, fire protection features (for example, fire walls , automatic sprinkler systems, alarms), occupancy (use) of adjoining areas, normal temperatures, exposure to weather, etc., must be taken into account in evaluating the hazard. INSIGHTS (2)
E103.2 Evaluation questions.
INSIGHTS
The following are sample evaluation questions:1.What is the material? Correct identification is important; exact spelling is vital. Checking labels and SDS and asking responsible persons should be among the highest priorities.2.What are the concentration and strength?3.What is the physical form of the material? Liquids, gases and finely divided solids have differing requirements for spill and leak control and containment.4.How much material is present? Consider in relation to permit amounts, maximum allowable quantity per control area (from Group H occupancy requirements), amounts that require detached storage and overall magnitude of the hazard.5.What other materials (including furniture, equipment and building components) are close enough to interact with the material?6.What are the likely reactions?7.What is the activity involving the material?8.How does the activity impact the hazardous characteristics of the material? Consider vapors released or hazards otherwise exposed.9.What must the material be protected from? (For example, other materials, temperature, shock, pressure.)10.What effects of the material must people and the environment be protected from?11.How can protection be accomplished? Consider:11.1.Proper containers and equipment.11.2.Separation by distance or construction.11.3.Enclosure in cabinets or rooms.11.4.Spill control, drainage and containment.11.5.Control system ventilation, special electrical, detection and alarm, extinguishment, explosion venting, limit controls, exhaust scrubbers and excess flow control.11.6.Administrative (operational) control signs, ignition source control, security, personnel training, established procedures, storage plans and emergency plans. Evaluation of the hazard is a strongly subjective process; therefore, the person charged with this responsibility must gather as much relevant data as possible so that the decision will be objective and within the limits prescribed in laws, policies and standards.It could be necessary to cause the responsible persons in charge to have tests made by qualified persons or testing laboratories to support contentions that a particular material or process is or is not hazardous. See Section 104.2.2 INSIGHTS (2)
Section E104 GHS Hazardous Materials Definitions
INSIGHTS
INSIGHTS (3)
E104.1 Hazardous materials definitions.
CDP
INSIGHTS
The categorization and classification of hazardous materials enables the code user to determine the applicability of requirements based on hazard category and class related to the physical and health hazards of materials. The current definitions found in Chapter 2 have been developed using criteria found in NFPA codes and standards, model fire prevention codes, NIOSH, and requirements of the US Department of Transportation (DOTn 49 CFR)and US Department of Labor (DOL 49 CFR 1910).
The chemical industry has grown substantially since the inception of the IFC hazard definitions. Large-scale global production and distribution of common and specialty chemicals has become mainstream. In the 1990s, the United Nations (UN) developed the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS) to create international congruency among chemical suppliers. The GHS is an internationally agreed upon standard of classification and labeling that utilizes prescriptive, standardized testing procedures and criteria to classify hazardous materials.
The DOL published a revised Hazard Communication Standard(DOL 29 CFR 1910.1200) to align with the GHS in March 2012. It became effective in May 2012. All manufacturers selling, producing or transporting chemicals in the United States are now required to comply with the GHS and provide this standardized hazard information on all Safety Data Sheets (SDS).
SDS are a primary source of information for identifying hazards for chemicals and mixtures containing hazardous materials. It can be helpful for fire code officials to become familiar with the GHS definitions and how they relate to IFC hazard definitions.
INSIGHTS (2)
E104.2 GHS hazardous materials definitions comparison table.
CDP
INSIGHTS
Table E104.2 provides a tabular presentation of the various definitions published within the International Fire Code. In addition, the table presents corresponding definitions, where available, from the 2012 edition of DOL 29 CFR 1910.1200 along with applicable hazard statement codes. DOL 29 CFR 1910.1200 aligns with the UN’s Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS). The table is not meant to imply perfect alignment between IFC and GHS definitions.
INSIGHTS (2)
TABLE
E104.2 IFC AND GHS HAZARD DEFINITIONS COMPARISONa
IFC MATERIAL
IFC CLASS
IFC DEFINITION
GHS 2017 (REV 7) CLASSIFICATION (H-CODE AND CATEGORY); HAZARD STATEMENT; DEFINITION
Aerosol
—
A combination of a container, a propellant and a material that is dispensed. Aerosol products shall be classified by means of the calculation of their chemical heats of combustion and shall be designated Level 1, Level 2 or Level 3.
Any nonrefillable receptacles made of metal, glass or plastics and containing a gas compressed, liquefied or dissolved under pressure, with or without a liquid, paste or powder, and fitted with a release device allowing the contents to be ejected as solid or liquid particles in suspension in a gas, as a foam, paste or powder or in a liquid state or in a gaseous state.
Aerosol
Level 1
Those with a total chemical heat of combustion that is less than or equal to 8,600 Btu/lb (20 kJ/g).
H223, Category 3; Pressurized container: May burst if heated.
1.
Any aerosol that contains ≤ 1% flammable components (by mass) and that has a heat ofcombustion < 20 kJ/g.
2.
Any aerosol that contains > 1% (by mass) flammable components or which has a heat ofcombustion of ≥ 20 kJ/g but which, based onthe results of the ignition distance test, theenclosed space ignition test or the aerosolfoam flammability test, does not meet thecriteria for Category 1 or Category 2.
Aerosol
Level 2
Those with a total chemical heat of combustion that is less than or equal to 8,600 Btu/lb (20 kJ/g).
H223, Category 2; Flammable aerosol. Pressurized container: May burst if heated:
1.
Any aerosol that dispenses a spray that, basedon the results of the ignition distance test,does not meet the criteria for Category 1, and which has:
a.
A heat of combustion of ≥ 20 kJ/g.
b.
A heat of combustion of < 20 kJ/g along with an ignition distance of ≥ 15 cm; or
c.
A heat of combustion of < 20 kJ/g and an ignition distance of < 15 cm along with either, in the enclosed space ignition test a time:i. A time equivalent of ≤ 300 s/m 3; orii. A deflagration density of ≤ 300g/m 3; or
2.
Any aerosol that dispenses a foam that, basedon the results of the aerosol foam flammability test, does not meet the criteria for Category 1,and which has a flame height of ≥ 4 cm and a flame duration of ≥ 2 s.
Aerosol
Level 3
Those with a total chemical heat of combustion that is greater than 13,000 Btu/lb (30 kJ/g).
H222, Category 1; Extremely flammable aerosol. Pressurized container: May burst if heated:
1.
Any aerosol that contains ≥ 85% flammable components (by mass) and has a heat ofcombustion of ≥ 30 kJ/g.
2.
Any aerosol that dispenses a spray that, in the ignition distance test, has an ignition distance of ≥ 75 cm.
3.
Any aerosol that dispenses a foam that, in the foam flammability test, has:
a.
A flame height of ≥ 20 cm and a flame duration of ≥ 2 s.
b.
A flame height of ≥ 4 cm and a flame duration of ≥ 7 s.
Combustible liquid
—
A liquid having a closed cup flash point at or above 100°F (38°C). Combustible liquids shall be subdivided as follows:
A flammable liquid means a liquid having a flash point of not more than 93°C.
Combustible liquid
II
Liquids having a closed cup flash point at or above 100°F (38°C) and below 140°F (60°C).
H226, Category 3; Flammable liquid and vapor: Flash point ≥ 23°C and ≤ 60°C
Combustible liquid
IIIA
Liquids having a closed cup flash point at or above 140°F (60°C) and below 200°F (93°C).
H227, Category 4; Combustible liquid: Flash point > 60°C and ≤ 93°C
Combustible liquid
IIIB
Liquids having closed cup flash points at or above 200°F (93°C).
N/A
Compressed gas
—
A material or mixture of materials that:
1.
Is a gas at 68°F (20°C) or less at 14.7 psia (101 kPa) of pressure, and
2.
Has a boiling point of 68°F (20°C) or less at 14.7 psia (101 kPa) which is either liquefied,nonliquefied or in solution, except those gases that have no other health- or physical-hazard properties are not considered to be compressed until the pressure in the packaging exceeds 41 psia (282 kPa) at 68°F(20°C).
States of compressed gases:
1.
Nonliquefied compressed gases are gases,other than those in solution, that are in a packaging under the charged pressure and are entirely gaseous at a temperature of 68°F(20°C).
2.
Liquefied compressed gases are gases that, ina packaging under the charged pressure, are partially liquid at a temperature of 68°F (20°C).
3.
Compressed gases in solution are nonliquefied gases that are dissolved in a solvent.
4.
Compressed gas mixtures consist of a mixture of two or more compressed gases contained ina packaging, the hazard properties of which are represented by the properties of the mixture as a whole.
Gases under pressure are gases which are contained in a receptacle at a pressure of 200 kPa (gauge) or more at 20°C, or which are liquefied, or liquefied and refrigerated.
H280, Compressed gas; Contains gas under pressure: May explode if heated. A gas which when under pressure is entirely gaseous at -50°C (-58°F), including all gases with a critical temperature ≤ -50°C (-58°F).
H280, Liquefied gas; Contains gas under pressure: May explode if heated. A gas which when under pressure is partially liquid at temperatures above -50°C (-58°F).
H280, Dissolved gas; Contains gas under pressure: May explode if heated. A gas which when under pressure is dissolved in a liquid phase solvent.
Corrosive
—
A chemical that causes visible destruction of, or irreversible alterations in, living tissue by chemical action at the point of contact. A chemical shall be considered corrosive if, when tested on the intact skin of albino rabbits by the method described in DOTn 49 CFR 173.137, such chemical destroys or changes irreversibly the structure of the tissue at the point of contact following an exposure period of 4 hours. This term does not refer to action on inanimate surfaces.
H314, Category 1 (1A, 1B, 1C); Causes severe skin burns and eye damage. Skin corrosion refers to the production of irreversible damage to the skin; namely, visible necrosis through the epidermis and into the dermis occurring after exposure to a substance or mixture.
Cryogenic fluid
—
A fluid having a boiling point lower than -130°F (- 89.9°C) at 14.7 pounds per square inch atmosphere (psia) (an absolute pressure of 101.3 kPa).
H281, Refrigerated liquefied gas; Contains refrigerated gas: May cause cryogenic burns or injury. A gas which is made partially liquid because of its low temperature.
Cryogenic flammable
—
A cryogenic fluid that is flammable in its vapor state.
H220, Category 1A; Extremely flammable gas. Gases, which at 20°C and a standard pressure of 101.3 kPa:
1.
Are ignitable when in a mixture of 13% or less by volume in air; or
2.
Have a flammable range with air of at least 12 percentage points, regardless of the lower flammability limit unless data show they meet the criteria for Category 1B.
Category 1A includes pyrophoric gases and chemically unstable gases. H281, refrigerated liquefied gas, would also apply.
Cryogenic— Inert
—
A cryogenic fluid that is inert.
H281, Refrigerated liquefied gas. Contains refrigerated gas: May cause cryogenic burns or injury. A gas which is made partially liquid because of its low temperature.
Cryogenic— Oxidizing
—
An oxidizing gas in the cryogenic state.
H270, Category 1: May cause or intensify fire; oxidizer. Any gas which may, generally by providing oxygen, cause or contribute to the combustion of other material more than air does.
H281, refrigerated liquefied gas, would also apply.
Explosives
—
A chemical compound, mixture or device, the primary or common purpose of which is to function by explosion. The term includes, but is not limited to, dynamite, black powder, pellet powder, initiating explosives, detonators, safety fuses, squibs, detonating cord, igniter cord and igniters.
The term “Explosive” includes any material determined to be within the scope of USC Title 18: Ch. 40 and also includes any material classified as an explosive other than consumer fireworks, Division 1.4G Explosives, by the hazardous materials regulations of DOTn 49 CFR Parts 100–185.
An explosive substance (or mixture) is a solid or liquid substance (or mixture of substances) which is in itself capable by chemical reaction of producing gas at such a temperature and pressure and at such a speed as to cause damage to the surroundings. Pyrotechnic substances are included even when they do not evolve gases.
Explosives
Unstable explosives
H200; Unstable explosive. Unstable explosives are those which are thermally unstable and/or too sensitive for normal handling, transport and use. Special precautions are necessary.
Explosives
Division 1.1
Explosives that have a mass explosion hazard. A mass explosion is one which affects almost the entire load instantaneously.
H201; Explosive; mass explosion hazard. Substances, mixtures and articles which have a mass explosion hazard (a mass explosion is one which affects almost the entire quantity present virtually instantaneously).
Explosives
Division 1.2
Explosives that have a projection hazard but not a mass explosion hazard.
H202; Explosive; severe projection hazard. Substances, mixtures and articles which have a projection hazard but not a mass explosion hazard.
Explosives
Division 1.3
Explosives that have a fire hazard and either a minor blast hazard or a minor projection hazard or both, but not a mass explosion hazard.
H203; Explosive; fire, blast or projection hazard. Substances, mixtures and articles which have a fire hazard and either a minor blast hazard or a minor projection hazard or both, but not a mass explosion hazard:
1.
Combustion of which gives rise to considerable radiant heat; or
2.
Which burn one after another, producing minor blast or projection effects or both.
Explosives
Division 1.4
Explosives that pose a minor explosion hazard. The explosive effects are largely confined to the package and no projection of fragments of appreciable size or range is to be expected. An external fire must not cause virtually instantaneous explosion of almost the entire contents of the package.
H204; Fire or projection hazard: Substances, mixtures and articles which present no significant hazard; substances, mixtures and articles which present only a small hazard in the event of ignition or initiation. The effects are largely confined to the package and no projection of fragments of appreciable size or range is to be expected. An external fire shall not cause virtually instantaneous explosion of almost the entire contents of the package.
Explosives
Division 1.4G
Small fireworks devices containing restricted amounts of pyrotechnic composition designed primarily to produce visual or audible effects by combustion or deflagration that complies with the construction, chemical composition and labeling regulations of the DOTn for fireworks, UN No. 0336 and the US Consumer Product Safety Commission as set forth in CPSC 16 CFR Parts 1500 and 1507.
N/A
Explosives
Division 1.5
Very insensitive explosives. This division is comprised of substances that have a mass explosion hazard but which are so insensitive that there is very little probability of initiation or of transition from burning to detonation under normal conditions of transport.
H205; May mass explode in fire. Very insensitive substances or mixtures which have a mass explosion hazard: substances and mixtures which have a mass explosion hazard but are so insensitive that there is very little probability or initiation or of transition from burning to detonation under normal conditions.
Explosives
Division 1.6
Extremely insensitive articles that do not have a mass explosion hazard. This division is comprised of articles that contain only extremely insensitive detonating substances and that demonstrate a negligible probability of accidental initiation or propagation.
Extremely insensitive articles which do not have a mass explosion hazard: articles which predominantly contain extremely insensitive substances or mixtures and which demonstrate a negligible probability of accidental initiation or propagation.
Flammable gas
Gaseous
A material that is a gas at 68°F (20°C) or less at 14.7 psia (101 kPa) of pressure [a material that has a boiling point of 68°F (20°C) or less at 14.7 psia (101 kPa)] which:
1.
Is ignitable at 14.7 psia (101 kPa) when in a mixture of 13% or less by volume with air; or
2.
Has a flammable range at 14.7 psia (101 kPa)with air of not less than 12%, regardless of the lower limit.
The limits specified shall be determined at 14.7 psia (101 kPa) of pressure and a temperature of 68°F (20°C) in accordance with ASTM E681.
A flammable gas is a gas having a flammable range with air at 20°C and a standard pressure of 101.3 kPa.
H220, Category 1A; Extremely flammable gas. Gases, which at 20°C and a standard pressure of 101.3 kPa:
1.
Are ignitable when in a mixture of 13% or less by volume in air; or
2.
Have a flammable range with air of at least 12 percentage points regardless of the lower flammability limit unless data show they meet the criteria for Category 1B.
Category 1A includes pyrophoric gases and chemically unstable gases.
H220, Category 1B; Flammable gas. Gases which meet the flammability criteria for Category 1A, but which are not pyrophoric nor chemically unstable, and which have at least either:
1.
A lower flammability limit of more than 6% by volume in air; or
2.
A fundamental burning velocity of less than 10 cm/s.
H280, compressed gas, would also apply.
Flammable liquid
—
A liquid having a closed cup flash point below 100°F (38°C). Flammable liquids are further categorized into a group known as Class I liquids. The Class I category is subdivided as follows:
A liquid having a flash point of not more than 93°C. A flammable liquid is classified in one of the four categories for this class.
Flammable liquid
IA
Liquids having a flash point below 73°F (23°C) and having a boiling point below 100°F (38°C).
H224, Category 1; Extremely flammable liquid and vapor. Flash point < 23°C and initial boiling point ≤ 35°C
Flammable liquid
IB
Liquids having a flash point below 73°F (23°C) and having a boiling point at or above 100°F (38°C).
H225, Category 2; Highly flammable liquid and vapor. Flash point < 23°C and initial boiling point > 35°C
Flammable liquid
IC
Liquids having a flash point at or above 73°F (23°C) and below 100°F (38°C).
H226, Category 3; Flammable liquid and vapor. Flash point ≥ 23°C and ≤ 60°C
Flammable solid
—
A solid, other than a blasting agent or explosive, that is capable of causing fire through friction, absorption of moisture, spontaneous chemical change or retaining heat from manufacturing or processing, or which has an ignition temperature below 212°F (100°C) or which burns so vigorously and persistently when ignited as to create a serious hazard. A chemical shall be considered a flammable solid, as determined in accordance with the test method of CPSC 16 CFR Part 1500.44, if it ignites and burns with a self-sustained flame at a rate greater than 0.0866 inch (2.2 mm) per second along its major axis.
A flammable solid is a solid which is readily combustible, or may cause or contribute to fire through friction.
A flammable solid is classified in one of the two categories for this class using method N.1 as described in Part III, subsection 33.2.1 of the Manual of Tests and Criteria, according to:
H228, Category 1; Flammable solid: Burning rate test: Substances or mixtures other than metal powders:
1.
Wetted zone does not stop fire; and
2.
Burning time < 45 s or burning rate > 2.2 mm/s.
Metal powders: burning time ≤ 5 min
H228, Category 2; Flammable solid: Burning rate test: Substances or mixtures other than metal powders:
1.
Wetted zone stops the fire for at least 4 min; and
2.
Burning time < 45 s or burning rate > 2.2 mm/s. Metal powders: burning time > 5 min and ≤ 10 min
Highly toxic
—
A material that produces a lethal dose or lethal concentration that falls within any of the following categories:
1.
A chemical that has a median lethal dose (LD50) of 50 mg or less per kg of body weight when administered orally to albino rats weighing between 200 and 300 g each.
2.
A chemical that has a medial lethal dose (LD50) of 200 mg or less per kg of body weight when administered by continuous contact for 24 hr(or less if death occurs within 24 hr) with thebare skin of albino rabbits weighing between 2 and 3 kg each.
3.
A chemical that has a median lethal concentration (LC50) in air of 200 ppm by volume or less of gas or vapor, or 2 mg/l or lessof mist, fume or dust, when administered by continuous inhalation for 1 hr (or less if death occurs within 1 hr) to albino rats weighing between 200 and 300 g.
Acute toxicity refers to serious adverse health effects (i.e., lethality) occurring after a single or short-term oral, dermal or inhalation exposure to a substance or mixture.
Oral
H300, Category 1; Fatal if swallowed: LD50 ≤ 5 mg/kg bodyweight
H300, Category 2; Fatal if swallowed: LD50 > 5 ≤ 50mg/kg bodyweight
Dermal
H310, Category 1; Fatal in contact with skin: LD50 ≤ 50mg/kg bodyweight
H310, Category 2; Fatal in contact with skin: LD50 > 50≤ 200 mg/kg bodyweight
Inhalation
H330, Category 1; Fatal if inhaled.
Gases: LC50 ≤ 100 ppm (4 hr) ≈ 200 ppm (1 hr)
Vapors: LC50 ≤ 0.5 mg/l (4 hr) ≈ 2 mg/l (1 hr)
Dust/mist: LC50 ≤ 0.05 mg/l (4 hr) ≈ 0.2 mg/l (1 hr)
Inert gas
—
A gas that is capable of reacting with other materials only under abnormal conditions such as high temperatures, pressures and similar extrinsic physical forces. Within the context of the code, inert gases do not exhibit either physical or health hazard properties as defined (other than acting as a simple asphyxiant) or hazard properties other than those of a compressed gas. Some of the more common inert gases include argon, helium, krypton, neon, nitrogen and xenon.
Gases under pressure are gases which are contained in receptacles at a pressure of 200 kPa (gauge) or more at 20°C or which are liquefied or liquefied and refrigerated. They comprise compressed gases, liquefied gases, dissolved gases and refrigerated liquefied gases.
See the description of “Compressed gas.”
Organic peroxide
—
An organic compound that contains the bivalent -O-Ostructure and which may be considered to be a structural derivative of hydrogen peroxide where one or both of the hydrogen atoms have been replaced by an organic radical. Organic peroxides can present an explosion hazard (detonation or deflagration) or they can be shock sensitive. They can also decompose into various unstable compounds over an extended period of time.
Organic peroxides are liquid or solid organic substances which contain the bivalent -O-O- structure and may be considered derivatives of hydrogen peroxide, where one or both of the hydrogen atoms have been replaced by organic radicals. The term also includes organic peroxide formulations (mixtures). Organic peroxides are thermally unstable substances or mixtures, which may undergo exothermic self-accelerating decomposition. In addition, they may have one or more of the following properties:
1.
Be liable to explosive decomposition.
2.
Burn rapidly.
3.
Be sensitive to impact or friction.
4.
React dangerously with other substances.
Organic peroxide
UD
Organic peroxides that are capable of detonation. These peroxides pose an extremely high-explosion hazard through rapid explosive decomposition.
H240, Organic peroxide, Type A; Heating may cause an explosion.
Any organic peroxide which, as packaged, can detonate or deflagrate rapidly will be defined as organic peroxide Type A.
Organic peroxide
I
Describes those formulations that are capable of defla- gration but not detonation.
H241, Organic peroxide, Type B; Heating may cause a fire or explosion.
Any organic peroxide possessing explosive properties and which, as packaged, neither detonates nor deflagrates rapidly but is liable to undergo a thermal explosion in that package will be defined as organic peroxide Type B.
Organic peroxide
II
Describes those formulations that burn very rapidly and that pose a moderate reactivity hazard.
H242, Organic peroxide, Type C; Heating may cause a fire.
Any organic peroxide possessing explosive properties when the substance or mixture as packaged cannot detonate or deflagrate rapidly or undergo a thermal explosion will be defined as organic peroxide Type C.
H242, Organic peroxide, Type D; Heating may cause a fire.
Any organic peroxide which in laboratory testing: Detonates partially, does not deflagrate rapidly and shows no violent effect when heated under confinement; or
Does not detonate at all, deflagrates slowly and shows no violent effect when heated under confinement; or
Does not detonate or deflagrate at all and shows a medium effect when heated under confinement; will be defined as organic peroxide Type D.
Organic peroxide
III
Describes those formulations that burn rapidly and that pose a moderate reactivity hazard.
H242, Organic peroxide, Type E; Heating may cause a fire.
Any organic peroxide which, in laboratory testing, neither detonates nor deflagrates at all and shows low or no effect when heated under confinement will be defined as organic peroxide Type E.
Organic peroxide
IV
Describes those formulations that burn in the same manner as ordinary combustibles and that pose a minimal reactivity hazard.
H242, Organic peroxide, Type F; Heating may cause a fire.
Any organic peroxide which, in laboratory testing, neither detonates in the cavitated state nor deflagrates at all and shows only a low or no effect when heated under confinement as well as low or no explosive power will be defined as organic peroxide Type F.
Organic peroxide
V
Describes those formulations that burn with less intensity than ordinary combustibles or do not sustain combustion and that pose no reactivity hazard.
Organic peroxide, Type G.
Any organic peroxide which, in laboratory testing, neither detonates in the cavitated state nor deflagrates at all and shows no effect when heated under confinement nor any explosive power, provided that it is thermally stable (selfaccelerating decomposition temperature is 60°C or higher for a 50 kg package), and for liquid mixtures, a diluent having a boiling point of not less than 150°C and used for desensitization will be defined as organic peroxide Type G. If the organic peroxide is not thermally stable or is a diluent having a boiling point less than 150°C and is used for desensitization, it shall be defined as organic peroxide Type F.
Oxidizer
—
A material that readily yields oxygen or other oxidizing gas, or that readily reacts to promote or initiate combustion of combustible materials and, if heated or contaminated, can result in vigorous self-sustained decomposition.
An oxidizing solid is a solid which, while in itself is not necessarily combustible, may, generally by yielding oxygen, cause, or contribute to, the combustion of other material.
An oxidizing liquid is a liquid which, while in itself not necessarily combustible, may, generally by yielding oxygen, cause, or contribute to, the combustion of other material.
Oxidizer
4
An oxidizer that can undergo an explosive reaction due to contamination or exposure to a thermal or physical shock that causes a severe increase in the burning rate of combustible materials with which it comes into contact. Additionally, the oxidizer causes a severe increase in the burning rate and can cause spontaneous ignition of combustibles.
H271, Category 1; May cause fire or explosion; strong oxidizer.
Criteria for solids (based on Test O.1 or O.3 in Part III of UN ST/SG/AC.10/11, Manual of Tests and Criteria ):
Test O.1—Any substance or mixture which, in the 4:1 or 1:1 sample-to-cellulose ratio (by mass) tested, exhibits a mean burning time less than the mean burning time of a 3:2 mixture (by mass) of potassium bromate and cellulose.
Test O.3—Any substance or mixture which, in the 4:1 or 1:1 sample-to-cellulose ratio (by mass) tested, exhibits a mean burning rate greater than the mean burning rate of a 3:1 mixture (by mass) of calcium peroxide and cellulose.
Criteria for liquids (based on Test O.2 in Part III of UN ST/SG/AC.10/11, Manual of Tests and Criteria ):
Any substance or mixture which, in the 1:1 mixture (by mass) of substance (or mixture) and cellulose tested, spontaneously ignites; or the mean pressure rise time of a 1:1 mixture (by mass) of substance and cellulose is less than that of a 1:1 mixture (by mass) of 50% perchloric acid and cellulose.
Oxidizer
3
An oxidizer that causes a severe increase in the burning rate of combustible materials with which it comes in contact.
H271, Category 1; May cause fire or explosion; strong oxidizer.
Criteria for solids (based on Test O.1 or O.3 in Part III of UN ST/SG/AC.10/11, Manual of Tests and Criteria ):
Test O.1—Any substance or mixture which, in the 4:1 or 1:1 sample-to-cellulose ratio (by mass) tested, exhibits a mean burning time less than the mean burning time of a 3:2 mixture (by mass) of potassium bromate and cellulose.
Test O.3—Any substance or mixture which, in the 4:1 or 1:1 sample-to-cellulose ratio (by mass) tested, exhibits a mean burning rate greater than the mean burning rate of a 3:1 mixture (by mass) of calcium peroxide and cellulose.
Criteria for liquids (based on Test O.2 in Part III of UN ST/SG/AC.10/11, Manual of Tests and Criteria ):
Any substance or mixture which, in the 1:1 mixture (by mass) of substance (or mixture) and cellulose tested, spontaneously ignites; or the mean pressure rise time of a 1:1 mixture (by mass) of substance and cellulose is less than that of a 1:1 mixture (by mass) of 50% perchloric acid and cellulose.
Oxidizer
2
An oxidizer that will cause a moderate increase in the burning rate of combustible materials with which it comes in contact.
H272, Category 2; May intensify fire; oxidizer.
Criteria for solids (based on Test O.1 or O.3 in Part III of UN ST/SG/AC.10/11, Manual of Tests and Criteria):
Test O.1—Any substance or mixture which, in the 4:1 or 1:1 sample-to-cellulose ratio (by mass) tested, exhibits a mean burning time equal to or less than the mean burning time of a 2:3 mixture (by mass) of potassium bromate and cellulose and the criteria for Category 1 are not met.
Test O.3—Any substance or mixture which, in the 4:1 or 1:1 sample-to-cellulose ratio (by mass) tested, exhibits a mean burning rate equal to or greater than the mean burning rate of a 1:1 mixture (by mass) of calcium peroxide and cellulose and the criteria for Category 1 are not met.
Criteria for liquids (based on Test O.2 in Part III of UN ST/SG/AC.10/11, Manual of Tests and Criteria ):
Any substance or mixture which, in the 1:1 mixture (by mass) of substance (or mixture) and cellulose tested, exhibits a mean pressure rise time less than or equal to the mean pressure rise time of a 1:1 mixture (by mass) of a 40% aqueous sodium chlorate solution and cellulose and the criteria for Category 1 are not met.
Oxidizer
1
An oxidizer that does not moderately increase the burning rate of combustible materials.
H272, Category 3; May intensify fire; oxidizer:
Criteria for solids (based on Test O.1 or O.3 in Part III of UN ST/SG/AC.10/11, Manual of Tests and Criteria):
Test O.1—Any substance or mixture which, in the 4:1 or 1:1 sample-to-cellulose ratio (by mass) tested, exhibits a mean burning time equal to or less than the mean burning time of a 3:7 mixture (by mass) of potassium bromate and cellulose and the criteria for Categories 1 and 2 are not met.
Test O.3—Any substance or mixture which, in the 4:1 or 1:1 sample-to-cellulose ratio (by mass) tested, exhibits a mean burning rate equal to or greater than the mean burning rate of a 1:2 mixture (by mass) of calcium peroxide and cellulose and the criteria for Categories 1 and 2 are not met.
Criteria for liquids (based on Test O.2 in Part III of UN ST/SG/AC.10/11, Manual of Tests and Criteria ):
Any substance or mixture which, in the 1:1 mixture (by mass) of substance (or mixture) and cellulose tested, exhibits a mean pressure rise time less than or equal to the mean pressure rise time of a 1:1 mixture (by mass) of a 65% aqueous nitric acid solution and cellulose and the criteria for Categories 1 and 2 are not met.
Oxidizing gas
Gaseous
A gas that can support and accelerate combustion of other materials more than air does.
Any gas which may, generally by providing oxygen, cause or contribute to the combustion of other material more than air does.
H270, Category 1; May cause or intensify fire; oxidizer: Any gas which may, generally by providing oxygen, cause or contribute to the combustion of other material more than air does.
H280, compressed gas would also apply.
Oxidizing gas
Liquified
An oxidizing gas that is liquefied [liquefied gases are gases that, in a packaging under the charged pressure, are partially liquid at 68°F (20°C)].
Any gas which may, generally by providing oxygen, cause or contribute to the combustion of other material more than air does.
H270, Category 1; May cause or intensify fire; oxidizer. Any gas which may, generally by providing oxygen, cause or contribute to the combustion of other material more than air does.
H280, liquefied gas, would also apply.
Pyrophoric
—
A chemical with an autoignition temperature in air, at or below a temperature of 130°F (54°C).
Separate definitions based on physical state; see each category of pyrophoric:
Pyrophoric
Solid
A solid with an autoignition temperature in air, at or below a temperature of 130°F (54°C).
H250, Category 1; Pyrophoric solid; Catches fire spontaneously if exposed to air. A pyrophoric solid is a solid which, even in small quantities, is liable to ignite within 5 minutes after coming into contact with air.
Classification criteria: The solid ignites within 5 minutes of coming into contact with air.
Pyrophoric
Liquid
A liquid with an autoignition temperature in air, at or below a temperature of 130°F (54°C).
H250, Category 1; Pyrophoric liquid; Catches fire spontaneously if exposed to air: A pyrophoric liquid is a liquid which, even in small quantities, is liable to ignite within 5 minutes after coming into contact with air.
Classification criteria: The liquid ignites within 5 minutes when added to an inert carrier and exposed to air, or it ignites or chars a filter paper on contact with air within 5 minutes. Testing is performed at 25 ±2°C and 50 ±5% relative humidity.
Pyrophoric
Gas
A gas with an autoignition temperature in air, at or below a temperature of 130°F (54°C).
H220, Category 1A; Extremely flammable gas. May ignite spontaneously if exposed to air: A pyrophoric gas is a flammable gas that is liable to ignite spontaneously in air at a temperature of 54°C or below.
H280, compressed (or liquefied) gas, would also apply.
Toxic
—
A chemical falling within any of the following categories:
1.
A chemical that has a median lethal dose(LD50) of more than 50 mg per kg, but not morethan 500 mg per kg of body weight whenadministered orally to albino rats weighingbetween 200 and 300 g each.
2.
A chemical that has a medial lethal dose (LD50)of more than 200 mg per kg but not more than1,000 mg per kg of body weight whenadministered by continuous contact for 24 hr(or less if death occurs within 24 hr) with thebare skin of albino rabbits weighing between 2and 3 kg each.
3.
A chemical that has a median lethal concentration(LC50) in air of more than 200ppm but not more than 2,000 ppm by volume or less of gas or vapor, or more than 2 mg/l but not more than 20 mg/l of mist, fume or dust, when administered by continuous inhalation for 1 hr (or less if death occurs within 1 hr) to albino rats weighing between 200 and 300 g
Acute toxicity refers to serious adverse health effects (i.e., lethality) occurring after a single or short-term oral, dermal or inhalation exposure to a substance or mixture.
Oral
H301, Category 3; Toxic if swallowed: LD50 > 50 ≤ 300 mg/kg bodyweight
H302, Category 4; Harmful if swallowed: LD50 > 300 ≤ 2,000 mg/kg bodyweight
Dermal
H311, Category 3, Toxic in contact with skin: LD50 > 200 ≤ 1,000 mg/kg bodyweight
Inhalation
H330, Category 2; Fatal if inhaled:
Gases: LC50 > 100 ppm (4 hr) ≈ 200 ppm (1 hr) ≤ 500ppm (4 hr) ≈ 1,000 ppm (1 hr)
Vapours: LC50 > 0.5 mg/l (4 hr) ≈ 2 mg/l (1 hr) ≤ 2 mg/l (4 hr) ≈ 8 mg/l (1 hr)
Dust/mist: LC50 > 0.05 mg/l (4 hr) ≈ 0.2 mg/l (1 hr) ≤ 0.5 mg/l (4 hr) ≈ 2 mg/l (1 hr)
H331, Category 3; Toxic if inhaled:
Gases: LC50 > 500 ppm (4 hr) ≈ 1,000 ppm (1 hr) ≤ 2,500 ppm (4 hr) ≈ 5,000 ppm (1 hr)
Vapours: LC50 > 2 mg/l (4 hr) ≈ 8 mg/l (1 hr) ≤ 10 mg/l (4 hr) ≈ 40 mg/l (1 hr)
Dust/mist: LC50 > 0.5 mg/l (4 hr) ≈ 2 mg/l (1 hr) ≤ 1 mg/l (4 hr) ≈ 4 mg/l (1 hr)
Unstable (reactive)
—
A material, other than an explosive, which in the pure state or as commercially produced, will vigorously polymerize, decompose, condense or become selfreactive and undergo other violent chemical changes, including explosion, when exposed to heat, friction or shock, or in the absence of an inhibitor, or in the presence of contaminants, or in contact with incompatible materials. Unstable (reactive) materials are subdivided as follows:
Self-reactive substances or mixtures are thermally unstable liquids or solid substances or mixtures liable to undergo a strongly exothermic decomposition even without participation of oxygen (air). This definition excludes substances and mixtures classified under the GHS as explosives, organic peroxides or as oxidizing.
A self-reactive substance or mixture is regarded as possessing explosive properties when in laboratory testing the formulation is liable to detonate, to deflagrate rapidly or to show a violent effect when heated under confinement.
Unstable (reactive)
4
Materials that in themselves are readily capable of detonation or of explosive decomposition or explosive reaction at normal temperatures and pressures. This class includes materials that are sensitive to mechanical or localized thermal shock at normal temperatures and pressures.
H240, Type A; Heating may cause an explosion.
Any self-reactive substance or mixture which can detonate or deflagrate rapidly, as packaged, will be defined as self-reactive substance Type A.
Unstable (reactive)
3
Materials that in themselves are capable of detonation or of explosive decomposition or explosive reaction but which require a strong initiating source or which must be heated under confinement before initiation. This class includes materials that are sensitive to thermal or mechanical shock at the elevated temperatures and pressures.
H241, Type B; Heating may cause a fire or explosion.
Any self-reactive substance or mixture possessing explosive properties and which, as packaged, neither detonates nor deflagrates rapidly, but is liable to undergo a thermal explosion in that package will be defined as self-reactive substance Type B.
Unstable (reactive)
2
Materials that in themselves are normally unstable and readily undergo violent chemical change but do not detonate. This class includes materials that can undergo chemical change with rapid release of energy at normal temperatures and pressures, and that can undergo violent chemical change at elevated temperatures and pressures.
H242, Type C; Heating may cause a fire.
Any self-reactive substance or mixture possessing explosive properties when the substance or mixture as packaged cannot detonate or deflagrate rapidly or undergo a thermal explosion will be defined as self-reactive substance Type C.
H242, Type D; Heating may cause a fire.
Any self-reactive substance or mixture which in laboratory testing:
• Detonates partially, does not deflagrate rapidly and shows no violent effect when heated underconfinement; or
• Does not detonate at all, deflagrates slowly andshows no violent effect when heated underconfinement; or
• Does not detonate or deflagrate at all and shows amedium effect when heated under confinement;will be defined as self-reactive substance Type D;
Will be defined as self-reactive substance Type D.
Unstable (reactive)
1
Materials that in themselves are normally stable but which can become unstable at elevated temperatures and pressures.
H242, Type E; Heating may cause a fire.
Any self-reactive substance or mixture which, in laboratory testing, neither detonates nor deflagrates at all and shows low or no effect when heated under confinement will be defined as selfreactive substance Type E.
H242, Type F; Heating may cause a fire.
Any self-reactive substance or mixture which, in laboratory testing, neither detonates in the cavitated state nor deflagrates at all and shows only a low or no effect when heated under confinement as well as low or no explosive power will be defined as self-reactive substance Type F. Any self-reactive substance or mixture which, in laboratory testing, neither detonates in the cavitated state nor deflagrates at all and shows no effect when heated under confinement nor any explosive power, provided that it is thermally stable (self-accelerating decomposition temperature is 60°C to 75°C for a 50 kg package), and for liquid mixtures, a diluent having a boiling point greater than or equal to 150°C and used for desensitization will be defined as self-reactive substance Type G. If the mixture is not thermally stable or is a diluent having a boiling point less than 150°C and is used for desensitization, the mixture shall be defined as self-reactive substance Type F.
Unstable (reactive) gas
Gaseous
A chemically unstable gas is a flammable gas that is able to react explosively even in the absence of air or oxygen.
H220, Category 1A, Category A; Extremely flammable gas; May react explosively even in the absence of air. Flammable gases which are chemically unstable at 20°C and a standard pressure of 101.3 kPa.
H220, Category 1A, Category B; Extremely flammable gas; May react explosively even in the absence of air at elevated pressure and/or temperature. Flammable gases which are chemically unstable at a temperature greater than 20°C and/or a standard pressure greater than 101.3 kPa.
H280, compressed gas, would also apply.
Water reactive
3
Materials that react explosively with water without requiring heat or confinement.
H260, Category 1; Contact with water releases flammable gases which may ignite spontaneously. Any substance or mixture which reacts vigorously with water at ambient temperatures and demonstrates generally a tendency for the gas produced to ignite spontaneously, or which reacts readily with water at ambient temperatures such that the rate of evolution of flammable gas is equal to or greater than 10 liters per kilogram of substance over any 1 minute. (UN/DOT test methods: Test N.5, Part III, subsection 33.4.1.4)
Water reactive
2
Materials that react violently with water or have the ability to boil water. Materials that produce flammable, toxic or other hazardous gases, or evolve enough heat to cause autoignition of combustibles upon exposure to water or moisture.
H261, Category 2; Contact with water releases flammable gas. Any substance or mixture which reacts readily with water at ambient temperatures such that the maximum rate of evolution of flammable gas is equal to or greater than 20 liters per kilogram of substance per hour, and which does not meet the criteria for Category 1.
Water reactive
1
Materials that react with water with some release of energy, but not violently.
H261, Category 3; Contact with water releases flammable gas. Any substance or mixture which reacts slowly with water at ambient temperatures such that the maximum rate of evolution of flammable gas is equal to or greater than 1 liter per kilogram of substance per hour, and which does not meet the criteria for Categories 1 and 2.
a. The table illustrates that there is not perfect alignment between the IFC and GHS definitions and provides information on similarities and difference between the two classification systems.
Section E105 Referenced Standards
E105.1 General.
See Table E105.1 for standards that are referenced in various sections of this appendix. Standards are listed by the standard identification with the effective date, standard title, and the section or sections of this appendix that reference the standard.
TABLE
E105.1 REFERENCED STANDARDS
STANDARD ACRONYM
STANDARD NAME
SECTIONS HEREIN REFERENCED
CGA P-20—2009
Standard for Classification of Toxic Mixtures
E103.1.3.1
CGA P-23—2008
Standard for Categorizing Gas Mixtures Containing Flammable and Nonflammable Components
E102.1.2
DOL 29 CFR Part 1910—2023
Occupational Safety and Health Standards
E104.1
DOL 29 CFR Part 1910.1200—2012
Hazard Communication
E102.1.7.2,
E104.1,
E104.2
DOTn 49 CFR—2023
Transportation
E104.1
DOTn 49 CFR Part 173.127—2005
Class 5, Division 5.1—Definition and Assignment of Packing Groups
E102.1.7.2
UN ST/SG/AC.10/11 (Rev. 7)—2019
Manual of Tests and Criteria
Table E104.2
UN ST/SG/AC.10/1 (Rev 21)—2019
Recommendations on the Transport of Dangerous Goods
Table E104.2
UN ST/SG/AC.10/30 (Rev.7)—2017
Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS), Part 2: Physical Hazards
E102.1.7.2,
E104.1,
E104.2, Table E104.2
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
I-Codes • 2024
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.