======================================================================
Appendix M High-Rise Buildings—Retroactive Automatic Sprinkler Requirement
======================================================================

Appendix L Requirements For Firefighter Air Replenishment Systems - International Fire Code (IFC)
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2024
International Fire Code (IFC)
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2024 International Fire Code (IFC) 2024 International Residential Code (IRC) 2024 International Building Code (IBC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
I-Codes
/
2024 International Fire Code (IFC)
Appendix L Requirements for Firefighter Air Replenishment Systems
2024 International Fire Code (IFC)
favorite_border
Version:
Jun 2024
Contents
Notes
Insights
Overview
Copyright
Preface
Part I Administrative
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Chapter 2 Definitions
Part II General Safety Provisions
Chapter 3 General Requirements
Chapter 4 Emergency Planning and Preparedness
Part III Building and Equipment Design Features
Chapter 5 Fire Service Features
Chapter 6 Building Services and Systems
Chapter 7 Fire and Smoke Protection Features
Chapter 8 Interior Finish, Decorative Materials and Furnishings
Chapter 9 Fire Protection and Life Safety Systems
Chapter 10 Means of Egress
Chapter 11 Construction Requirements for Existing Buildings
Chapter 12 Energy Systems
Chapters 13–19 Reserved
Part IV Special Occupancies and Operations
Chapter 20 Aviation Facilities
Chapter 21 Dry Cleaning
Chapter 22 Combustible Dust-Producing Operations
Chapter 23 Motor Fuel-Dispensing Facilities and Repair Garages
Chapter 24 Flammable Finishes
Chapter 25 Fruit and Crop Ripening
Chapter 26 Fumigation and Insecticidal Fogging
Chapter 27 Semiconductor Fabrication Facilities
Chapter 28 Lumber Yards and Agro-Industrial, Solid Biomass and Woodworking Facilities
Chapter 29 Manufacture of Organic Coatings
Chapter 30 Industrial Ovens
Chapter 31 Tents, Temporary Special Event Structures and Other Membrane Structure
Chapter 32 High-Piled Combustible Storage
Chapter 33 Fire Safety During Construction and Demolition
Chapter 34 Tire Rebuilding and Tire Storage
Chapter 35 Welding and Other Hot Work
Chapter 36 Marinas
Chapter 37 Combustible Fibers
Chapter 38 Higher Education Laboratories
Chapter 39 Processing and Extraction Facilities
Chapter 40 Storage of Distilled Spirits and Wines
Chapter 41 Temporary Heating and Cooking Operation
Chapters 42-49 Reserved
Part V Hazardous Materials
Chapter 50 Hazardous Materials—General Provisions
Chapter 51 Aerosols
Chapter 52 Reserved
Chapter 53 Compressed Gases
Chapter 54 Corrosive Materials
Chapter 55 Cryogenic Fluids
Chapter 56 Explosives and Fireworks
Chapter 57 Flammable and Combustible Liquids
Chapter 58 Flammable Gases and Flammable Cryogenic Fluids
Chapter 59 Flammable Solids
Chapter 60 Highly Toxic and Toxic Materials
Chapter 61 Liquefied Petroleum Gases
Chapter 62 Organic Peroxides
Chapter 63 Oxidizers, Oxidizing Gases and Oxidizing Cryogenic Fluids
Chapter 64 Pyrophoric Materials
Chapter 65 Pyroxylin (Cellulose Nitrate) Plastics
Chapter 66 Unstable (Reactive) Materials
Chapter 67 Water-Reactive Solids and Liquids
Chapters 68-79 Reserved
Part VI Referenced Standards
Chapter 80 Referenced Standards
Part VII Appendices
Appendix A Board of Appeals
Appendix B Fire-Flow Requirements for Buildings
Appendix C Fire Hydrant Locations and Distribution
Appendix D Fire Apparatus Access Roads
Appendix E Hazard Categories
Appendix F Hazard Ranking
Appendix G Cryogenic Fluids—Weight and Volume Equivalents
Appendix H Hazardous Materials Management Plan (Hmmp) and Hazardous Materials Inventory Statement (Hmis) Instructions
Appendix I Fire Protection Systems—Noncompliant Conditions
Appendix J Building Information Sign
Appendix K Construction Requirements for Existing Ambulatory Care Facilities
Appendix L Requirements for Firefighter Air Replenishment Systems
Section L101 General
Section L102 Definitions
Section L103 Permits
Section L104 Design and Installation
Section L105 Acceptance Tests
Section L106 Inspection, Testing and Maintenance
Section L107 Referenced Standards
Appendix M High-Rise Buildings—Retroactive Automatic Sprinkler Requirement
Appendix N Indoor Trade Shows and Exhibitions
Appendix O Valet Trash and Recycling Collection in Group R-2 Occupancies
Index
Content Updates—Version 2
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
Appendix L Requirements for Firefighter Air Replenishment Systems
The provisions contained in this appendix are not mandatory unless specifically referenced in the adopting ordinance or legislation of the jurisdiction.
User notes:
About this appendix: Appendix L provides for the design, installation and maintenance of permanently installed firefighter breathing air systems in buildings designated by the jurisdiction. Breathing air is critical for firefighting operations. Historically, fire departments have supplied air bottles by means of a “bottle brigade,” whereby firefighters manually transport air bottles up stairways, which is an extraordinarily firefighter-intensive process and takes firefighters away from their primary mission of rescue and firefighting. Technology now exists to address the issue using in-building air supply systems. Firefighter breathing air systems were introduced in the late 1980s and are now required in a number of communities throughout the United States. The system has been called a “standpipe for air” and consists of stainless steel, high-pressure piping that is supplied by on-site air storage or fire department air supply units. Air filling stations are then strategically located throughout the building, allowing firefighters to refill breathing air cylinders inside the fire building, negating the required “bottle brigade,” and making more firefighters available for search, rescue and fire suppression operations. Code development reminder: Code change proposals to this appendix will be considered by the IFC Code Development Committee during the 2024 (Group A) Code Development Cycle.
Section L101 General
L101.1 Scope.
CDP
Firefighter air replenishment systems (FARS) shall be provided in accordance with this appendix. The adopting ordinance shall specify building characteristics or special hazards that establish thresholds triggering a requirement for the installation of a FARS. The requirement shall be based on the fire department’s capability of replenishing firefighter breathing air during sustained emergency operations. Considerations shall include:1.Building characteristics, such as number of stories above or below grade plane, floor area, type of construction and fire-resistance of the primary structural frame to allow sustained firefighting operations based on a rating of not less than 2 hours.2.Special hazards, other than buildings, that require unique accommodations to allow the fire department to replenish firefighter breathing air.3.Fire department staffing level.4.Availability of a fire department breathing air replenishment vehicle.
Section L102 Definitions
L102.1 Definitions.
CDP
For the purpose of this appendix, certain terms are defined as follows:FIREFIGHTER AIR REPLENISHMENT SYSTEM (FARS).A permanently installed arrangement of piping, valves, fittings and equipment to facilitate the replenishment of breathing air in self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) for firefighters engaged in emergency operations.
Section L103 Permits
L103.1 Permits.
Permits shall be required to install and maintain a FARS. Permits shall be in accordance with Sections L103.2 and L103.3.
L103.2 Construction permit.
A construction permit is required for installation of or modification to a FARS. The construction permit application shall include documentation of an acceptance and testing plan as specified in Section L105.
L103.3 Operational permit.
An operational permit is required to maintain a FARS.
Section L104 Design and Installation
L104.1 Design and installation.
A FARS shall be designed and installed in accordance with Sections L104.2 through
L104.15.3.
L104.2 Standards.
Firefighter air replenishment systems shall be in accordance with Sections L104.2.1 and
L104.2.2.
L104.2.1 Pressurized system components.
Pressurized system components shall be designed and installed in accordance with ASME B31.3.
L104.2.2 Air quality.
The system shall be designed to convey breathing air complying with NFPA 1989.
L104.3 Design and operating pressure.
The minimum design pressure shall be 110 percent of the fire department’s normal SCBA fill pressure. The system design pressure shall be marked in an approved manner at the supply connections, and adjacent to pressure gauges on any fixed air supply components. Pressure shall be maintained in the system within 5 percent of the design pressure.
L104.4 Cylinder refill rate.
The FARS shall be capable of refilling breathing air cylinders of a size and pressure used by the fire department at a rate of not less than two empty cylinders in 2 minutes.
L104.5 Breathing air supply.
CDP
Where a fire department mobile air unit is available, the FARS shall be supplied by an external mobile air connection in accordance with Section L104.14. Where a fire department mobile air unit is not available, a stored pressure air supply shall be provided in accordance with Section L104.5.1. A stored pressure air supply shall be permitted to be added to a system supplied by an external mobile air connection provided that a means to bypass the stored pressure air supply is located at the external mobile air connection.
L104.5.1 Stored pressure air supply.
CDP
A stored pressure air supply shall be designed based on Chapter 24 of NFPA 1901 except that provisions applicable only to mobile apparatus or not applicable to system design shall not apply. A stored pressure air supply shall be capable of refilling not less than 50 empty breathing air cylinders of a size and pressure used by the fire department.
L104.5.2 Retrofit of external mobile air connection.
CDP
A FARS not initially provided with an external mobile air connection due to the lack of a mobile air unit shall be retrofitted with an external mobile air connection where a mobile air unit becomes available. Where an external mobile air connection is provided, a means to bypass the stored pressure air supply shall be located at the external mobile air connection. The retrofit shall be completed not more than 12 months after notification by the fire code official .
L104.6 Isolation valves.
INSIGHTS
System isolation valves that allow access for the fire department shall be installed on the system riser to allow piping beyond any air cylinder refill panel to be blocked. INSIGHTS (2)
L104.7 Pressure relief valve.
CDP
Pressure relief valves shall be installed at each point of supply and at the top or end of every riser. The relief valve shall meet the requirements of CGA S-1.3 and shall not be field adjustable. Pressure relief valves shall discharge in a manner that does not endanger personnel who are in the area. Valves, plugs or caps shall not be installed in the discharge of a pressure relief valve. Where discharge piping is used the end shall not be threaded.
L104.8 Materials and equipment.
Pressurized system components shall be listed or approved for their intended use and rated for the maximum allowable design pressure in the system. Piping and fittings shall be stainless steel.
L104.9 Welded connections.
Piping connections that are concealed shall be welded.
L104.10 Protection of piping.
INSIGHTS
System piping shall be protected from physical damage in an approved manner. INSIGHTS (1)
L104.11 Compatibility.
Fittings and connections intended to be used by the fire department shall be compatible with the fire department’s equipment.
L104.12 Security.
Connections to a FARS shall be safeguarded from unauthorized access in an approved manner.
L104.13 Fill stations.
CDP
Firefighter air replenishment fill stations shall comply with Section L104.13.1 through
L104.13.3.
L104.13.1 Location.
CDP
Fill stations for refilling breathing air cylinders shall be located as follows:1.Fill stations shall be provided at the fifth floor above and below the ground level floor and every third floor level thereafter.2.On floor levels requiring fill stations, one fill station shall be provided adjacent to a required exit stair at a location designated by the fire code official. In buildings required to have three or more exit stairs, additional fill stations shall be provided at a ratio of one fill station for every three stairways.
L104.13.2 Design.
CDP
Fill stations for breathing air cylinders shall be designed to meet the following requirements:1.A pressure gauge and pressure-regulating devices and controls shall be provided to allow the operator to control the fill pressure and fill rate on each cylinder fill hose.2.Valves controlling cylinder fill hoses shall be slow-operating valves.3.A separate flow restriction device shall be provided on each fill hose.4.A method shall be provided to bleed each cylinder fill hose.5.The fill station shall be designed to provide a containment area that fully encloses any cylinder being filled and flexible cylinder fill hoses, and directs the energy from a failure away from personnel. Fill stations shall be designed to prohibit filling of cylinders that are not enclosed within the containment area. Exception: Where required or approved by the fire chief, fill stations providing for the direct refilling of the firefighters’ breathing air cylinders using Rapid Intervention Crew/Company Universal Air Connection (RIC/UAC) fittings shall be used in lieu of cylinder fill stations that utilize containment areas.
L104.13.3 Cylinder refill rate.
Fill stations shall be capable of simultaneously filling two or more empty breathing air cylinders equivalent to those used by the fire department to the cylinders’ design pressure within 2 minutes.
L104.14 External mobile air connection.
CDP
An external mobile air connection shall be provided for fire department mobile air apparatus where required by Section L104.5 to supply the system with breathing air.
L104.14.1 Location.
CDP
INSIGHTS
The location of the external mobile air connection shall have access for mobile air apparatus and approved by the fire code official. INSIGHTS (2)
L104.14.2 Protection from vehicles.
A means of vehicle impact protection in accordance with Section 312 shall be provided to protect mobile air connections that are subject to vehicular impact.
L104.14.3 Clear space around connections.
A working space of not less than 36 inches (914 mm) in width, 36 inches (914 mm) in depth and 78 inches (1981 mm) in height shall be provided and maintained in front of and to the sides of external mobile air connections.
L104.15 Air monitoring system.
An approved air monitoring system shall be provided. The system shall automatically monitor air quality, moisture and pressure on a continual basis. The air monitoring system shall be equipped with not less than two content analyzers capable of detecting carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, nitrogen, oxygen, moisture and hydrocarbons.
L104.15.1 Alarm conditions.
The air monitoring system shall transmit a supervisory signal when any of the following levels are detected:1.Carbon monoxide exceeds 5 ppm.2.Carbon dioxide exceeds 1,000 ppm.3.An oxygen level below 19.5 percent or above 23.5 percent.4.A nitrogen level below 75 percent or above 81 percent.5.Hydrocarbon (condensed) content exceeds 5 milligrams per cubic meter of air.6.The moisture concentration exceeds 24 ppm by volume.7.The pressure falls below 90 percent of the maintenance pressure specified in Section L104.3.
L104.15.2 Alarm supervision, monitoring and notification.
The air monitoring system shall be electrically supervised and monitored by an approved supervising station, or where approved, shall initiate audible and visual supervisory signals at a constantly attended location.
L104.15.3 Air quality status display.
Air quality status shall be visually displayed at the external mobile air connection required by Section L104.14.
Section L105 Acceptance Tests
L105.1 Acceptance tests.
CDP
Upon completion of the installation, a FARS shall be acceptance tested to verify compliance with equipment manufacturers’ instructions and design documents. Oversight of the acceptance tests shall be provided by a registered design professional. Acceptance testing shall include all of the following:1.A pneumatic test in accordance with ASME B31.3 of the complete system at a minimum test pressure of 110 percent of the system design pressure using oil free dry air, nitrogen or argon shall be conducted. Test pressure shall be maintained for not less than 24 hours. During this test, all fittings, joints and system components shall be inspected for leaks. Defects in the system or leaks detected shall be documented and repaired.2.A cylinder-filling performance test shall be conducted to verify compliance with the required breathing air cylinder refill rate from the exterior mobile air connection and, where provided, a stored air pressure supply system.3.The air quality monitoring system shall be tested to verify both of the following conditions:3.1.Visual indicators required by Section L104.15.1 function properly.3.2.Supervisory signals are transmitted as required by Section L104.15.2 for each sensor based on a sensor function test.4.Connections intended for fire department use shall be confirmed as compatible with the fire department’s mobile air unit, SCBA cylinders and, where provided, RIC/UAC connections.5.Air samples shall be taken from not less than two fill stations and submitted to an approved gas analysis laboratory to verify compliance with NFPA 1989. The FARS shall not be placed into service until a written report verifying compliance with NFPA 1989 has been provided to the fire code official.
Section L106 Inspection, Testing and Maintenance
L106.1 Periodic inspection, testing and maintenance.
A FARS shall be continuously maintained in an operative condition and shall be inspected not less than annually. Not less than quarterly, an air sample shall be taken from the system and tested to verify compliance with NFPA 1989. The laboratory test results shall be maintained on site and readily available for review by the fire code official.
Section L107 Referenced Standards
L107.1 General.
See Table L107.1 for standards that are referenced in various sections of this appendix. Standards are listed by the standard identification with the effective date, standard title, and the section or sections of this appendix that reference the standard.
TABLE L107.1 REFERENCED STANDARDS
STANDARD ACRONYM
STANDARD NAME
SECTIONS HEREIN REFERENCED
ASME B31.3—2022
Process Piping
L104.2.1, L105.1
CGA S-1.3—2020 Pressure Relief Device Standards—Part 3 Stationary Storage Containers for Compressed Gases
L104.7
NFPA 1901—24
Standard for Automotive Fire Apparatus
L104.5.1
NFPA 1989—13
Breathing Air Quality for Fire Emergency Services Respiratory Protection
L104.2.2, L105.1, L106.1
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
I-Codes • 2024
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.