======================================================================
Chapter 40 Storage of Distilled Spirits and Wines
======================================================================

Chapter 39 Processing And Extraction Facilities - International Fire Code (IFC)
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2024
International Fire Code (IFC)
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2024 International Fire Code (IFC) 2024 International Residential Code (IRC) 2024 International Building Code (IBC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
I-Codes
/
2024 International Fire Code (IFC)
Chapter 39 Processing and Extraction Facilities
2024 International Fire Code (IFC)
favorite_border
Version:
Jun 2024
Contents
Notes
Insights
Overview
Copyright
Preface
Part I Administrative
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Chapter 2 Definitions
Part II General Safety Provisions
Chapter 3 General Requirements
Chapter 4 Emergency Planning and Preparedness
Part III Building and Equipment Design Features
Chapter 5 Fire Service Features
Chapter 6 Building Services and Systems
Chapter 7 Fire and Smoke Protection Features
Chapter 8 Interior Finish, Decorative Materials and Furnishings
Chapter 9 Fire Protection and Life Safety Systems
Chapter 10 Means of Egress
Chapter 11 Construction Requirements for Existing Buildings
Chapter 12 Energy Systems
Chapters 13–19 Reserved
Part IV Special Occupancies and Operations
Chapter 20 Aviation Facilities
Chapter 21 Dry Cleaning
Chapter 22 Combustible Dust-Producing Operations
Chapter 23 Motor Fuel-Dispensing Facilities and Repair Garages
Chapter 24 Flammable Finishes
Chapter 25 Fruit and Crop Ripening
Chapter 26 Fumigation and Insecticidal Fogging
Chapter 27 Semiconductor Fabrication Facilities
Chapter 28 Lumber Yards and Agro-Industrial, Solid Biomass and Woodworking Facilities
Chapter 29 Manufacture of Organic Coatings
Chapter 30 Industrial Ovens
Chapter 31 Tents, Temporary Special Event Structures and Other Membrane Structure
Chapter 32 High-Piled Combustible Storage
Chapter 33 Fire Safety During Construction and Demolition
Chapter 34 Tire Rebuilding and Tire Storage
Chapter 35 Welding and Other Hot Work
Chapter 36 Marinas
Chapter 37 Combustible Fibers
Chapter 38 Higher Education Laboratories
Chapter 39 Processing and Extraction Facilities
Section 3901 General
Section 3902 Definitions
Section 3903 Processing and Extraction
Section 3904 Systems and Equipment
Section 3905 Safety Systems
Chapter 40 Storage of Distilled Spirits and Wines
Chapter 41 Temporary Heating and Cooking Operation
Chapters 42-49 Reserved
Part V Hazardous Materials
Chapter 50 Hazardous Materials—General Provisions
Chapter 51 Aerosols
Chapter 52 Reserved
Chapter 53 Compressed Gases
Chapter 54 Corrosive Materials
Chapter 55 Cryogenic Fluids
Chapter 56 Explosives and Fireworks
Chapter 57 Flammable and Combustible Liquids
Chapter 58 Flammable Gases and Flammable Cryogenic Fluids
Chapter 59 Flammable Solids
Chapter 60 Highly Toxic and Toxic Materials
Chapter 61 Liquefied Petroleum Gases
Chapter 62 Organic Peroxides
Chapter 63 Oxidizers, Oxidizing Gases and Oxidizing Cryogenic Fluids
Chapter 64 Pyrophoric Materials
Chapter 65 Pyroxylin (Cellulose Nitrate) Plastics
Chapter 66 Unstable (Reactive) Materials
Chapter 67 Water-Reactive Solids and Liquids
Chapters 68-79 Reserved
Part VI Referenced Standards
Chapter 80 Referenced Standards
Part VII Appendices
Appendix A Board of Appeals
Appendix B Fire-Flow Requirements for Buildings
Appendix C Fire Hydrant Locations and Distribution
Appendix D Fire Apparatus Access Roads
Appendix E Hazard Categories
Appendix F Hazard Ranking
Appendix G Cryogenic Fluids—Weight and Volume Equivalents
Appendix H Hazardous Materials Management Plan (Hmmp) and Hazardous Materials Inventory Statement (Hmis) Instructions
Appendix I Fire Protection Systems—Noncompliant Conditions
Appendix J Building Information Sign
Appendix K Construction Requirements for Existing Ambulatory Care Facilities
Appendix L Requirements for Firefighter Air Replenishment Systems
Appendix M High-Rise Buildings—Retroactive Automatic Sprinkler Requirement
Appendix N Indoor Trade Shows and Exhibitions
Appendix O Valet Trash and Recycling Collection in Group R-2 Occupancies
Index
Content Updates—Version 2
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
Chapter 39 Processing and Extraction Facilities
User notes:
About this chapter: Chapter 39 focuses on the processing and extraction of oils and fats from various plants. This process includes extraction by use of a solvent, desolventizing the raw material, production of the miscella, distillation of the solvent from the miscella and solvent recovery. The processes used are not necessarily typical hazardous material processes, and often the systems and equipment associated with such processes may not be listed. This chapter provides the tools to appropriately address the hazards while also meeting the unique needs of industry. This chapter has provisions for a technical report prepared by a registered design professional and requires site inspections to make sure equipment and systems are installed as designed and approved.
Section 3901 General
CDP
INSIGHTS
INSIGHTS (1)
3901.1 Scope.
CDP
INSIGHTS
Facilities where plant processing and solvent-based extraction are conducted, including but not limited to cultivation and related activities, pre-extraction or post-extraction, shall comply with this chapter and the International Building Code . The use, storage, transfilling and handling of hazardous materials in these facilities shall comply with this chapter, other applicable provisions of this code and the International Building Code. Exception: Greenhouses in compliance with Section 3112 of the International Building Code not utilizing carbon dioxide enrichment. INSIGHTS (2)
3901.2 Existing buildings or facilities.
CDP
INSIGHTS
Existing buildings or facilities used for the processing or extraction of plant oils using solvents shall comply with this chapter. Existing extraction processes where the medium of extraction is changed to include the use of solvents shall comply with this chapter. INSIGHTS (2)
3901.3 Permits.
CDP
Permits shall be required as set forth in Sections 105.5 and 105.6.
3901.4
Lighting.
CDP
INSIGHTS
Where used, horticultural lights or lighting systems shall be listed and labeled in accordance with UL 8800 and installed in accordance with the listing, the manufacturer’s installation instructions and NFPA 70.
INSIGHTS (2)
3901.5 Carbon dioxide generation.
CDP
INSIGHTS
Carbon dioxide-enriched atmospheres generated using methods to create carbon dioxide as a by product shall meet the requirements of
Sections 5307.4.1
through
5307.4.7.
INSIGHTS (2)
Section 3902 Definitions
CDP
3902.1 Definitions.
CDP
The following terms are defined in Chapter 2:DESOLVENTIZING. MISCELLA.
Section 3903 Processing and Extraction
3903.1 Construction.
Processing shall be located in a building complying with the International Building Code.
3903.2 Prohibited occupancies.
CDP
Extraction processes utilizing flammable gases or flammable cryogenic fluids shall not be located in any building containing a Group A, E, I or R occupancy.
3903.3 Location.
The extraction equipment and extraction processes utilizing hydrocarbon solvents shall be located in a room or area dedicated to extraction.
3903.4 Post-process purification and winterization.
Post-processing and winterization involving the heating or pressurizing of the miscella to other than normal pressure or temperature shall be approved and performed in an appliance listed for such use. Domestic or commercial cooking appliances shall not be used.
3903.4.1 Industrial ovens.
The use of industrial ovens shall comply with Chapter 30.
3903.5 Use of flammable and combustible liquids.
The use of flammable and combustible liquids for liquid extraction processes where the liquid is boiled, distilled or evaporated shall be located within a hazardous exhaust fume hood, rated for exhausting flammable vapors. Electrical equipment used within the hazardous exhaust fume hood shall be rated for use in flammable atmospheres. Heating of
flammable or combustible liquids over an open flame is prohibited.Exception: The use of a heating element not rated for flammable atmospheres, where documentation from the manufacture, or approved testing laboratory indicates the element is rated for heating of flammable liquids.
3903.6 Liquefied petroleum gas.
Liquefied petroleum gases shall not be released to the atmosphere except where released in accordance with Section 7.3 of NFPA 58 .
3903.7 Means of egress.
INSIGHTS
Exit and exit access doors from rooms or areas used for extraction shall swing in the direction of egress travel.
INSIGHTS (3)
Section 3904 Systems and Equipment
3904.1 General requirements.
INSIGHTS
Systems and equipment used with the processing or extraction of oils and products from plants shall comply with Sections 3904.2 through 3904.2.2.3 and Section 5003.2, and other applicable provisions of this code, the International Building Code and the International Mechanical Code . INSIGHTS (2)
3904.2 Systems and equipment.
INSIGHTS
Systems or equipment used for the extraction or processing of oils from plant material shall comply with Section 3904.2.1 or 3904.2.2. INSIGHTS (2)
3904.2.1 Listings.
INSIGHTS
Systems or equipment used for the extraction of oils from plant material shall be listed and labeled in accordance with UL 1389 and installed in accordance with the listing and the manufacturer’s installation instructions. INSIGHTS (2)
3904.2.2 Approvals.
Systems or equipment used for the extraction of oils from plant material shall be approved for the specific use. The system shall be reviewed by a registered design professional. The registered design professional shall review and consider any information provided by the system’s designer or manufacturer. A technical report in accordance with Section 3904.2.2.1 shall be prepared and submitted to the fire code official for review and approval. The firm or individual preparing the technical report shall be approved by the fire code official prior to performing the analysis.
3904.2.2.1 Technical report.
A technical report, reviewed and approved by the fire code official as required by Section 3904.2, is required prior to the equipment being located or installed at the facility. The report shall be prepared by a registered design professional or other professional approved by the fire code official .
3904.2.2.2 Report content.
The technical report shall contain all of the following:1.Manufacturer information.2.Preparer of record of the technical report.3.Date of review and report revision history.4.Signature page, including all of the following:4.1.Author of the report.4.2.Date of report.4.3.Date and signature of registered design professional of record performing the design or peer review.5.Model number of the item evaluated. If the equipment is provided with a serial number, the serial number shall be included for verification at the time of site inspection.6.Methodology of the design or peer review process used to determine minimum safety requirements. Methodology shall consider the basis of design, and shall include a code analysis and code path to demonstrate whether specific codes or standards are applicable.7.Equipment description. A list of every component and subassembly, such as fittings, hose, quick disconnects, gauges, site glass, gaskets, valves, pumps, vessels, containers and switches, of the system or equipment, indicating the manufacturer, model number, material and solvent compatibility. Manufacturer’s data sheets shall be provided.8.A general flow schematic or general process flow diagram of the process. Post-processing or winterization shall be included in this diagram. Primary components of the process equipment shall be identified and match the equipment list required in Item 7. Operating temperatures, pressures and solvent state of matter shall be identified in each primary step or component. A piping and instrumentation diagram (PID or P&ID) shall be provided.9.Analysis of the vessel(s) if pressurized beyond standard atmospheric pressure. Analysis shall include purchased and fabricated components.10.Structural analysis for the frame system supporting the equipment.11.Process safety analysis of the extraction system, from the introduction of raw product to the end of the extraction process.12.Comprehensive process hazard analysis considering failure modes and points of failure throughout the process. The process hazard analysis shall include a review of emergency procedure information provided by the manufacturer of the equipment or process and not that of the facility, building or room.13.Review of the assembly instructions, operational and maintenance manuals provided by the manufacturer.14.List of references used in the analysis.
3904.2.2.3 Site inspection.
Prior to operation of the extraction equipment, where required by the fire code official, the engineer of record or approved professional, as approved in Section 3904.2, shall inspect the site of the extraction process once equipment has been installed for compliance with the technical report and the building analysis. The engineer of record or approved professional shall provide a report of findings and observations of the site inspection to the fire code official prior to the approval of the extraction process. The field inspection report authored by the engineer of record shall include the serial number of the equipment used in the process and shall confirm that the equipment installed is the same model and type of equipment identified in the technical report.
Section 3905 Safety Systems
3905.1 Gas detection.
For extraction processes utilizing flammable gases as solvents, a gas detection system complying with Section 916 shall be provided.
3905.1.1 Operation.
Activation of the gas detection system shall result in all the following:1.Initiation of distinct audible and visual alarm signals in the extraction room.2.Deactivation of all heating systems located in the extraction room.3.Activation of the mechanical ventilation system, where the system is interlocked with gas detection.4.De-energize all light switches and electrical outlets.
3905.1.2 Failure of the gas detection system.
Failure of the gas detection system shall result in the deactivation of the heating system; activation of the mechanical ventilation system where the system is interlocked with the gas detection system; and initiation of a trouble signal to sound in an approved location.
3905.2 Emergency shutoff.
Extraction processes utilizing gaseous hydrocarbon-based solvents shall be provided with emergency shutoff systems in accordance with Section 5803.1.3.
3905.3
Ventilation.
INSIGHTS
Continuous mechanical exhaust ventilation shall be provided in accordance with Sections 3905.3.1 through
3905.3.4 and Chapter 4 of the International Mechanical Code.
INSIGHTS (3)
3905.3.1 Extraction processes using flammable or combustible liquids or gases.
INSIGHTS
Continuous mechanical exhaust ventilation shall be provided where extraction processes use flammable or combustible liquids or gases. The mechanical exhaust ventilation shall provide a minimum airflow rate of not less than 5 cfm/ft2[0.0254 m3/(s × m2)] of floor area to prevent an accumulation of flammable vapors from exceeding 25 percent of the lower explosive limit (LEL).
Exception:
Where the registered design professional demonstrates that an engineered mechanical exhaust ventilation system design will prevent the maximum concentration of contaminants from exceeding 25 percent of the LEL, the minimum required rate of exhaust shall be reduced in accordance with such engineered system design.
INSIGHTS (2)
3905.3.2 Extraction processes using compressed asphyxiant or inert gases.
INSIGHTS
Continuous mechanical exhaust ventilation shall be provided where extraction processes use compressed asphyxiant or inert gases. Mechanical exhaust ventilation shall be provided in accordance with Section 5307.2.
INSIGHTS (2)
3905.3.3 Post-extraction processes using flammable or combustible liquids or gases.
INSIGHTS
Where flammable liquids, combustible liquids heated above their flashpoint, or flammable gases are used in post-extraction processing the room or area shall be provided with continuous mechanical exhaust in accordance with Section 5004.3.
INSIGHTS (2)
3905.3.4
Interlocks.
INSIGHTS
Interlocks shall be provided where electrical equipment and appliances are used in processes that generate flammable vapors or gases. Such equipment and appliances shall be interlocked with ventilation fans so that the equipment and appliances cannot be operated unless the exhaust ventilation fans are in operation.
INSIGHTS (2)
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
I-Codes • 2024
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.