======================================================================
Chapter 2 [CE] Definitions
======================================================================

Chapter 1 Ce Scope And Administration - International Energy Conservation Code and ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1-2022 (I
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2024
International Energy Conservation Code and ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1-2022 (IECC)
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2024 International Energy Conservation Code and ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1-2022 (IECC) 2024 International Green Construction Code Code (IgCC) 2024 International Zoning Code (IZC) 2024 International Wildland-Urban Interface Code (IWUIC) 2024 International Swimming Pool and Spa Code (ISPSC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
I-Codes
/
2024 International Energy Conservation Code and ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1-2022 (IECC)
Chapter 1 [CE] Scope and Administration
2024 International Energy Conservation Code and ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1-2022 (IECC)
favorite_border
Version:
Jan 2025
Contents
Notes
Overview
Copyright
Foreword
Copyright
New Design for the 2024 International Codes
Preface
Formatting Changes to the 2024 International Codes
About the I-Codes
Introduction to the International Energy Conservation Code
Arrangement and Format of the 2024 IECC
Relocation of Text or Tables
Abbreviations and Notations
IECC—Commercial Provisions
Chapter 1 [CE] Scope and Administration
Part 1 Scope and Application
Part 2 Administration and Enforcement
Chapter 2 [CE] Definitions
Chapter 3 [CE] General Requirements
Chapter 4 [CE] Commercial Energy Efficiency
Chapter 5 [CE] Existing Buildings
Chapter 6 [CE] Referenced Standards
Appendix CA Board of Appeals—Commercial
Appendix CB Solar-Ready Zone—Commercial
Appendix CC Zero Energy Commercial Building Provisions
Appendix CD the 2030 Glide Path
Appendix CE Required Hvac Total System Performance Ratio (Tspr)
Appendix CF Energy Credits
Appendix CG Electric Vehicle Charging Infrastructure
Appendix CH Electric-Ready Commercial Building Provisions
Appendix CI Demand Responsive Controls
Appendix CJ Electrical Energy Storage System
Index
Resource Cra All-Electric Commercial Building Provisions
Resource Crb the 2030 Glide Path (Prescriptive)
IECC—Residential Provisions
Chapter 1 [RE] Scope and Administration
Chapter 2 [RE] Definitions
Chapter 3 [RE] General Requirements
Chapter 4 [RE] Residential Energy Efficiency
Chapter 5 [RE] Existing Buildings
Chapter 6 [RE] Referenced Standards
Appendix RA Board of Appeals—Residential
Appendix RB Solar-Ready Provisions—Detached One- and Two-Family Dwellings and Townhouses
Appendix RC Zero Net Energy Residential Building Provisions
Appendix RD Electric Energy Storage Provisions
Appendix RE Electric Vehicle Charging Infrastructure
Appendix RF Alternative Building Thermal Envelope Insulation R-Value Options
Appendix RG 2024 IECC Stretch Code
Appendix RH Operational Carbon Rating and Energy Reporting
Appendix RI On-Site Renewable Energy
Appendix RJ Demand Responsive Controls
Appendix RK Electric-Ready Residential Building Provisions
Appendix RL Renewable Energy Infrastructure
Index
Resource Rra All-Electric Residential Buildings
Editorial Changes – Second Printing
Ansi/Ashrae/Ies Standard 90.1-2022
Copyright
Ashrae Standard Project Committee 90.1 (2019–2022) Cognizant Tc: 7.6 Systems Energy Utilization Spls Liaison: Jennifer Isenbeck · Ashrae Staff Liaison: Emily Toto · Ies Liaison: Mark Lien
Foreword
1. Purpose
2. Scope
3. Definitions, Abbreviations, and Acronyms
4. Administration and Enforcement
5. Building Envelope
6. Heating, Ventilating, and Air Conditioning
7. Service Water Heating
8. Power
9. Lighting
10. Other Equipment
11. Additional Efficiency Requirements
12. Energy Cost Budget Method
13. Normative Reference
Normative Appendix a Rated R-Value of Insulation and Assembly U-Factor, C-Factor, and F-Factor Determinations
Informative Appendix B (Retained for Future Use)
Normative Appendix C Methodology for Building Envelope Trade-Off Option in Section 5.6
Informative Appendix D (Retained for Future Use)
Informative Appendix E Informative References
Informative Appendix F F U.s. Department of Energy Minimum Energy Efficiency Requirements, Test Procedures, and Definitions
Normative Appendix G Performance Rating Method
Informative Appendix H Additional Guidance for Verification, Testing, and Commissioning
Informative Appendix I Using Other Metrics in Conjunction with Appendix G Performance Rating Method When Approved by the Rating Authority
Normative Appendix J Sets of Performance Curves
Informative Appendix K Informative Figures—Thermal Bridges
Normative Appendix L Mechanical System Performance Rating Method
Informative Appendix M Addenda Description
Annex 1 Reference Standard Reproduction—Ashrae Standard 169
Ashrae · 1791 Tullie Circle Ne · Atlanta, Ga 30329 · Www.ashrae.org
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
CHAPTER 1 [CE] SCOPE AND ADMINISTRATIONUser notes:About this chapter: Chapter 1 establishes the limits of applicability of the code and describes how the code is to be applied and enforced. Chapter 1 is in two parts: Part 1—Scope and Application and Part 2—Administration and Enforcement. Section C101 identifies what buildings, systems, appliances and equipment fall under its purview and references other I-Codes as applicable. Standards and codes are scoped to the extent referenced.The code is intended to be adopted as a legally enforceable document and it cannot be effective without adequate provisions for its administration and enforcement. The provisions of Chapter 1 establish the authority and duties of the code official appointed by the authority having jurisdiction and also establish the rights and privileges of the design professional, contractor and property owner.QR code use: A QR code is placed at the beginning of any section that has undergone technical revision. To see those revisions, scan the QR code with a smart device or enter the 7-digit code beneath the QR code at the end of the following URL: qr.iccsafe.org/ (see Formatting Changes to the 2024 International Codes for more information).
PART1—SCOPE AND APPLICATION
SECTION C101—SCOPE AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
C101.1 Title.This code shall be known as the Energy Conservation Code of [NAME OF JURISDICTION] and shall be cited as such. It is referred to herein as “this code.”
C101.2
Scope.This code applies to the design and construction of buildings not covered by the scope of the IECC—ResidentialProvisions.
C101.2.1
Appendices.Provisions in the appendices shall not apply unless specifically adopted.
C101.3 Intent.The IECC—Commercial Provisions provide market-driven, enforceable requirements for the design and construction of commercial buildings, providing minimum efficiency requirements for buildings that result in the maximum level of energy efficiency that is safe, technologically feasible, and life cycle cost effective, considering economic feasibility, including potential costs and savings for consumers and building owners, and return on investment. Additionally, the code provides jurisdictions with supplemental requirements, including ASHRAE 90.1, and optional requirements that lead to achievement of zero energy buildings, presently, and through glidepaths that achieve zero energy buildings by 2030 and on additional timelines sought by governments, and achievement of additional policy goals as identified by the Energy and Carbon Advisory Council and approved by the Board of Directors. Requirements contained in the code will include, but not be limited to, prescriptive- and performance-based pathways. The code may include nonmandatory appendices incorporating additional energy efficiency and greenhouse gas reduction resources developed by the International Code Council and others. The code will aim to simplify code requirements to facilitate the code’s use and compliance rate. The code is updated on a 3-year cycle with each subsequent edition providing increased energy savings over the prior edition. This code is intended to provide flexibility to permit the use of innovative approaches and techniques to achieve this intent. This code is not intended to abridge safety, health or environmental requirements contained in other applicable codes or ordinances.
C101.4 Compliance.Residential buildings shall meet the provisions of IECC—Residential Provisions. Commercial buildings shall meet the provisions of IECC—Commercial Provisions.
C101.4.1 Compliance materials. The code official shall be permitted to approve specific computer software, worksheets, compliance manuals and other similar materials that meet the intent of this code.
SECTION C102—APPLICABILITY
C102.1 Applicability.Where, in any specific case, different sections of this code specify different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most restrictive shall govern. Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall govern.
C102.1.1 Mixed residential and commercial buildings.Where a building includes both residential building and commercial building portions, each portion shall be separately considered and meet the applicable provisions of IECC—Commercial Provisions or IECC—Residential Provisions.
C102.2 Other laws.The provisions of this code shall not be deemed to nullify any provisions of local, state or federal law.
C102.3 Applications of references.References to chapter or section numbers, or to provisions not specifically identified by number, shall be construed to refer to such chapter, section or provision of this code.
C102.4 Referenced codes and standards.The codes and standards referenced in this code shall be those listed in Chapter 6, and such codes and standards shall be considered as part of the requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each such reference and as further regulated in Sections C102.4.1 and C102.4.2.
C102.4.1 Conflicts.Where conflicts occur between provisions of this code and referenced codes and standards, the provisions of this code shall apply.
C102.4.2 Provisions in referenced codes and standards.Where the extent of the reference to a referenced code or standard includes subject matter that is within the scope of this code, the provisions of this code, as applicable, shall take precedence over the provisions in the referenced code or standard.
C102.5 Partial invalidity.If a portion of this code is held to be illegal or void, such a decision shall not affect the validity of theremainder of this code.
PART2—ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION C103—CODE COMPLIANCE AGENCY
C103.1 Creation of enforcement agency.The [INSERT NAME OF DEPARTMENT] is hereby created and the official in charge thereof shallbe known as the authority having jurisdiction (AHJ). The function of the agency shall be the implementation, administration andenforcement of the provisions of this code.
C103.2 Appointment.The AHJ shall be appointed by the chief appointing authority of the jurisdiction.
C103.3 Deputies.In accordance with the prescribed procedures of this jurisdiction and with the concurrence of the appointing authority, the AHJ shall have the authority to appoint a deputy AHJ, other related technical officers, inspectors and other employees. Such employees shall have powers as delegated by the AHJ.
SECTION C104—ALTERNATIVE MATERIALS, DESIGN AND METHODS OF CONSTRUCTION AND EQUIPMENT
C104.1 General.The provisions of this code are not intended to prevent the installation of any material or to prohibit any design or method of construction not specifically prescribed by this code, provided that any such alternative has been approved. The code official shall have the authority to approve an alternative material, design or method of construction upon the written application of the owner or the owner’s authorized agent. The code official shall first find that the proposed design is satisfactory and complies with the intent of the provisions of this code, and that the material, method or work offered is, for the purpose intended, not less than the equivalent of that prescribed in this code in quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability, energy conservation and safety. The code official shall respond to the applicant, in writing, stating the reasons why the alternative was approved or was not approved.
C104.1.1 Above code programs.The code official or other authority having jurisdiction shall be permitted to deem a national, state or local energy efficiency program as exceeding the energy efficiency required by this code. Buildings approved in writing by such an energy efficiency program shall be considered to be in compliance with this code. The requirements identified in Table C407.2(1) shall be met.
SECTION C105—CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS
C105.1 General.Construction documents and other supporting data shall be submitted in one or more sets, or in a digital format where allowed by the code official, with each application for a permit. The construction documents shall be prepared by a registered design professional where required by the statutes of the jurisdiction in which the project is to be constructed. Where special conditions exist, the code official is authorized to require necessary construction documents to be prepared by a registered design professional.Exception: The code official is authorized to waive the requirements for construction documents or other supporting data if the code official determines they are not necessary to confirm compliance with this code.
C105.2 Information on construction documents.Construction documents shall be drawn to scale on suitable material. Electronic media documents are permitted to be submitted where approved by the code official. Construction documents shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the location, nature and extent of the work proposed, and show in sufficient detail pertinent data and features of the building, systems and equipment as herein governed. Details shall include, but are not limited to, the following as applicable:1.Energy compliance path.2.Insulation materials and their R-values.3.Fenestration U-factors and solar heat gain coefficients(SHGC).4.Area-weighted U-factor and solar heat gain coefficient (SHGC) calculations.5.Air barrier and air sealing details, including the location of the air barrier.6.Thermal bridges as identified in Section C402.7.7.Mechanical system design criteria.8.Mechanical and service water-heating systems and equipment types, sizes and efficiencies.9.Economizer description.10.Equipment and system controls.11.Fan motor horsepower (hp) and controls.12.Duct sealing, duct and pipe insulation and location.13.Lighting fixture schedule with wattage and control narrative.14.Location of daylight zones on floor plans.15.Location of pathways for routing of raceways or cable from the on-site renewable energy system to the electrical distribution equipment.16.Location reserved for inverters, metering equipment and energy storage systems (ESS), and a pathway reserved for routing of raceways or conduit from the renewable energy system to the point of interconnection with the electrical service and the ESS.17.Location and layout of a designated area for ESS.18.Rated energy capacity and rated power capacity of the installed or planned ESS.
C105.2.1 Building thermal envelope depiction.The building thermal envelope shall be represented on the construction drawings.
C105.3
Examination of documents.The code official shall examine or cause to be examined the accompanying construction documents and shall ascertain whether the construction indicated and described is in accordance with the requirements of this code and other pertinent laws or ordinances. The code official is authorized to utilize a registered design professional, or other approved entity not affiliated with the building design or construction, in conducting the review of the plans and specifications for compliance with the code.
C105.3.1 Approval of construction documents.When the code official issues a permit where construction documents are required, the construction documents shall be endorsed in writing and stamped “Reviewed for Code Compliance.” Such approved construction documents shall not be changed, modified or altered without authorization from the code official. Work shall be done in accordance with the approved construction documents.One set of construction documents so reviewed shall be retained by the code official. The other set shall be returned to the applicant, kept at the site of work and shall be open to inspection by the code official or a duly authorized representative.
C105.3.2 Previous approvals.This code shall not require changes in the construction documents, construction or designated occupancy of a structure for which a lawful permit has been heretofore issued or otherwise lawfully authorized, and the construction of which has been pursued in good faith within 180 days after the effective date of this code and has not been abandoned.
C105.3.3 Phased approval.The code official shall have the authority to issue a permit for the construction of part of an energy conservation system before the construction documents for the entire system have been submitted or approved, provided that adequate information and detailed statements have been filed complying with all pertinent requirements of this code. The holders of such permit shall proceed at their own risk without assurance that the permit for the entire energy conservation system will be granted.
C105.4 Amended construction documents.Changes made during construction that are not in compliance with the approved construction documents shall be resubmitted for approval as an amended set of construction documents.
C105.5 Retention of construction documents.One set of approved construction documents shall be retained by the code official for a period of not less than 180 days from date of completion of the permitted work, or as required by state or local laws.
C105.6 Building documentation and closeout submittal requirements. The construction documents shall specify that the documents described in this section be provided to the building owner or owner’s authorized agent within 90 days of the date of receipt of the certificate of occupancy.
C105.6.1 Record documents.Construction documents shall be updated to convey a record of the completed work. Such updates shall include mechanical, electrical and control drawings that indicate all changes to size, type and location of components, equipment and assemblies.
C105.6.2 Compliance documentation.Energy code compliance documentation and supporting calculations shall be delivered in one document to the building owner as part of the project record documents or manuals, or as a standalone document. This document shall include the specific energy code edition utilized for compliance determination for each system, documentation demonstrating compliance with Section C303.1.3 for each fenestration product installed, and the interior lighting power compliance path, building area or space-by-space, used to calculate the lighting power allowance.For projects complying with Item 2 of Section C401.2,the documentation shall include:1.The envelope insulation compliance path.2.All compliance calculations including those required by Sections C402.1.4, C403.8.1, C405.3 and C405.5.3.A plan for annual energy use data gathering and disclosure as specified in Section C405.13.For projects complying with Section C407, the documentation shall include that required by Sections C407.3.1 and C407.3.2.
C105.6.3 Systems operation control.Training shall be provided to those responsible for maintaining and operating equipment included in the manuals required by Section C105.6.2.The training shall include:1.Review of manuals and permanent certificate.2.Hands-on demonstration of all normal maintenance procedures, normal operating modes, and all emergency shutdown and startup procedures.3.Training completion report.
SECTION C106—FEES
C106.1 Fees.A permit shall not be valid until the fees prescribed by law have been paid. Nor shall an amendment to a permit bereleased until the additional fee, if any, has been paid.
C106.2 Schedule of permit fees.A fee for each permit shall be paid as required, in accordance with the schedule as established by the applicable governing authority.
C106.3 Valuation of work.The applicant for a permit shall provide an estimated value of the work for which the permit is being issued at the time of application. Such estimated valuations shall include the total value of the work, including materials and labor. Where, in the opinion of the code official, the valuation is underestimated, the permit shall be denied unless the applicant can show detailed estimates acceptable to the code official. The final valuation shall be approved by the code official.
C106.4 Work commencing before permit issuance.Any person who commences any work before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to a fee established by the code official that shall be in addition to the required permit fees.
C106.5 Related fees.The payment of the fee for the construction, alteration, removal or demolition of work done in connection to or concurrently with the work or activity authorized by a permit shall not relieve the applicant or holder of the permit from the payment of other fees that are prescribed by law.
C106.6 Refunds.The code official is authorized to establish a refund policy.
SECTION C107—INSPECTIONS
C107.1 General.Construction or work for which a permit is required shall be subject to inspection by the code official, his or her designated agent or an approved agency, and such construction or work shall remain visible and able to be accessed for inspection purposes until approved. Approval as a result of an inspection shall not be construed to be an approval of a violation of the provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction. Inspections presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid. It shall be the duty of the permit applicant to cause the work to remain visible and able to be accessed for inspection purposes. Neither the code official nor the jurisdiction shall be liable for expense entailed in the removal or replacement of any material, product, system or building component required to allow inspection to validate compliance with this code.
C107.2 Required inspections.The code official, his or her designated agent or an approved agency, upon notification, shall make the inspections set forth in Sections C107.2.1 through C107.2.6.
C107.2.1 Footing and foundation insulation.Inspections shall verify the footing and foundation insulation R-value, location, thickness, depth of burial and protection of insulation as required by the code, approved plans and specifications.
C107.2.2 Building thermal envelope.Inspections shall verify the type of insulation, R-values, location of insulation, thermal bridge mitigation, fenestration, U-factor, SHGC and VT, and that air leakage controls are installed, as required by the code, approved plans and specifications.
C107.2.3 Plumbing system.Inspections shall verify the type of insulation, R-values, protection required, controls and heat traps as required by the code, approved plans and specifications.
C107.2.4 Mechanical system.Inspections shall verify the installed HVAC equipment for the type and size, controls, insulation, R-values, system and damper air leakage, minimum fan efficiency, energy recovery and economizer as required by the code, approved plans and specifications.
C107.2.5 Electrical system.Inspections shall verify lighting system controls, components and meters as required by the code, approved plans and specifications. Where an ESS area is required, inspections shall verify space availability and pathways to electrical service.
C107.2.6 Final inspection.The final inspection shall include verification of the installation and proper operation of all required building controls, and documentation verifying activities associated with required building commissioning have been conducted in accordance with Section C408.
C107.3 Reinspection. A building shall be reinspected where determined necessary by the code official.
C107.4 Approved inspection agencies.The code official is authorized to accept reports of third-party inspection agencies not affiliated with the building design or construction, provided that such agencies are approved as to qualifications and reliability relevant to the building components and systems that they are inspecting.
C107.5 Inspection requests.It shall be the duty of the holder of the permit or their duly authorized agent to notify the code official when work is ready for inspection. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to provide access to and means for inspections of such work that are required by this code.
C107.6 Reinspection and testing.Where any work or installation does not pass an initial test or inspection, the necessary corrections shall be made to achieve compliance with this code. The work or installation shall then be resubmitted to the code official for inspection and testing.
SECTION C108—NOTICE OF APPROVAL
C108.1 Approval.After the prescribed tests and inspections indicate that the work complies in all respects with this code, a notice ofapproval shall be issued by the code official.
C108.2 Revocation.The code official is authorized to suspend or revoke, in writing, a notice of approval issued under the provisions of this code wherever the certificate is issued in error, or on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or where it is determined that the building or structure, premise, or portion thereof is in violation of any ordinance or regulation or any of the provisions of this code.
SECTION C109—MEANS OF APPEALS
C109.1 General.In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations made by the code official relative to the application and interpretation of this code, there shall be and is hereby created a board of appeals. The board of appeals shall be appointed by the governing authority and shall hold office at its pleasure. The board shall adopt rules of procedure for conducting its business, and shall render all decisions and findings in writing to the appellant with a duplicate copy to the code official.
C109.2 Limitations on authority.An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply or an equally good or better form of construction is proposed. The board shall not have authority to waive requirements of this code.
C109.3 Qualifications.The board of appeals shall consist of members who are qualified by experience and training on matters pertaining to the provisions of this code and are not employees of the jurisdiction.
C109.4 Administration.The code official shall take action in accordance with the decisions of the board.
SECTION C110—STOP WORK ORDER
C110.1 Authority.Where the code official finds any work regulated by this code being performed in a manner contrary to the provisions of this code or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, the code official is authorized to issue a stop work order.
C110.2 Issuance.The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, the owner’s authorized agent or the person performing the work. Upon issuance of a stop work order, the cited work shall immediately cease. The stop work order shall state the reason for the order and the conditions under which the cited work is authorized to resume.
C110.3 Emergencies.Where an emergency exists, the code official shall not be required to give a written notice prior to stopping the work.
C110.4
Failure to comply.Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a stop work order, except suchwork as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to fines established by the AHJ.
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
•
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.