======================================================================
Chapter 6 [RE] Referenced Standards
======================================================================

Chapter 5 Re Existing Buildings - International Energy Conservation Code and ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1-2022 (I
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2024
International Energy Conservation Code and ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1-2022 (IECC)
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2024 International Energy Conservation Code and ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1-2022 (IECC) 2024 International Green Construction Code Code (IgCC) 2024 International Zoning Code (IZC) 2024 International Wildland-Urban Interface Code (IWUIC) 2024 International Swimming Pool and Spa Code (ISPSC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
I-Codes
/
2024 International Energy Conservation Code and ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1-2022 (IECC)
Chapter 5 [RE] Existing Buildings
2024 International Energy Conservation Code and ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1-2022 (IECC)
favorite_border
Version:
Jan 2025
Contents
Notes
Overview
Copyright
Foreword
Copyright
New Design for the 2024 International Codes
Preface
Formatting Changes to the 2024 International Codes
About the I-Codes
Introduction to the International Energy Conservation Code
Arrangement and Format of the 2024 IECC
Relocation of Text or Tables
Abbreviations and Notations
IECC—Commercial Provisions
Chapter 1 [CE] Scope and Administration
Chapter 2 [CE] Definitions
Chapter 3 [CE] General Requirements
Chapter 4 [CE] Commercial Energy Efficiency
Chapter 5 [CE] Existing Buildings
Chapter 6 [CE] Referenced Standards
Appendix CA Board of Appeals—Commercial
Appendix CB Solar-Ready Zone—Commercial
Appendix CC Zero Energy Commercial Building Provisions
Appendix CD the 2030 Glide Path
Appendix CE Required Hvac Total System Performance Ratio (Tspr)
Appendix CF Energy Credits
Appendix CG Electric Vehicle Charging Infrastructure
Appendix CH Electric-Ready Commercial Building Provisions
Appendix CI Demand Responsive Controls
Appendix CJ Electrical Energy Storage System
Index
Resource Cra All-Electric Commercial Building Provisions
Resource Crb the 2030 Glide Path (Prescriptive)
IECC—Residential Provisions
Chapter 1 [RE] Scope and Administration
Chapter 2 [RE] Definitions
Chapter 3 [RE] General Requirements
Chapter 4 [RE] Residential Energy Efficiency
Chapter 5 [RE] Existing Buildings
Section R501—General
Section R502—Additions
Section R503—Alterations
Section R504—Repairs
Section R505—Change of Occupancy or Use
Chapter 6 [RE] Referenced Standards
Appendix RA Board of Appeals—Residential
Appendix RB Solar-Ready Provisions—Detached One- and Two-Family Dwellings and Townhouses
Appendix RC Zero Net Energy Residential Building Provisions
Appendix RD Electric Energy Storage Provisions
Appendix RE Electric Vehicle Charging Infrastructure
Appendix RF Alternative Building Thermal Envelope Insulation R-Value Options
Appendix RG 2024 IECC Stretch Code
Appendix RH Operational Carbon Rating and Energy Reporting
Appendix RI On-Site Renewable Energy
Appendix RJ Demand Responsive Controls
Appendix RK Electric-Ready Residential Building Provisions
Appendix RL Renewable Energy Infrastructure
Index
Resource Rra All-Electric Residential Buildings
Editorial Changes – Second Printing
Ansi/Ashrae/Ies Standard 90.1-2022
Copyright
Ashrae Standard Project Committee 90.1 (2019–2022) Cognizant Tc: 7.6 Systems Energy Utilization Spls Liaison: Jennifer Isenbeck · Ashrae Staff Liaison: Emily Toto · Ies Liaison: Mark Lien
Foreword
1. Purpose
2. Scope
3. Definitions, Abbreviations, and Acronyms
4. Administration and Enforcement
5. Building Envelope
6. Heating, Ventilating, and Air Conditioning
7. Service Water Heating
8. Power
9. Lighting
10. Other Equipment
11. Additional Efficiency Requirements
12. Energy Cost Budget Method
13. Normative Reference
Normative Appendix a Rated R-Value of Insulation and Assembly U-Factor, C-Factor, and F-Factor Determinations
Informative Appendix B (Retained for Future Use)
Normative Appendix C Methodology for Building Envelope Trade-Off Option in Section 5.6
Informative Appendix D (Retained for Future Use)
Informative Appendix E Informative References
Informative Appendix F F U.s. Department of Energy Minimum Energy Efficiency Requirements, Test Procedures, and Definitions
Normative Appendix G Performance Rating Method
Informative Appendix H Additional Guidance for Verification, Testing, and Commissioning
Informative Appendix I Using Other Metrics in Conjunction with Appendix G Performance Rating Method When Approved by the Rating Authority
Normative Appendix J Sets of Performance Curves
Informative Appendix K Informative Figures—Thermal Bridges
Normative Appendix L Mechanical System Performance Rating Method
Informative Appendix M Addenda Description
Annex 1 Reference Standard Reproduction—Ashrae Standard 169
Ashrae · 1791 Tullie Circle Ne · Atlanta, Ga 30329 · Www.ashrae.org
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
CHAPTER 5 [RE]
EXISTING BUILDINGSUser notes:About this chapter: Many buildings are renovated or altered in numerous ways that could affect the energy use of the building as a whole. Chapter 5 requires the application of certain parts of Chapter 4 in order to maintain, if not improve, the conservation of energy by the renovated or altered building.
SECTION
R501—GENERAL
R501.1
Scope.The provisions of this chapter shall control the alteration, repair, addition and change of occupancy of existing buildings and structures.
R501.1.1
General.Except as specified in this chapter, this code shall not be used to require the removal, alteration or abandonment of, nor prevent the continued use and maintenance of, an existing building or building system lawfully in existence at the time of adoption of this code. Unaltered portions of the existing building or building supply system shall not be required to comply with this code.
R501.2
Compliance. Additions, alterations, repairs or changes of occupancy to, or relocation of, an existing building, building system or portion thereof shall comply with Section R502, R503, R504 or R505, respectively, in this code and the provisions for alterations, repairs, additions and changes of occupancy or relocation, respectively, in the International Building Code, International Existing Building Code, International Fire Code, International Fuel Gas Code, International Mechanical Code, International Plumbing Code, International Property Maintenance Code, International Private Sewage Disposal Code, International Residential Code and NFPA 70, as applicable. Changes where unconditioned space is changed to conditioned space shall comply with Section R501.6.
R501.3
Maintenance.Buildings and structures, and parts thereof, shall be maintained in a safe and sanitary condition. Devices and systems that are required by this code shall be maintained in conformance to the code edition under which installed. The owner or the owner’s authorized agent shall be responsible for the maintenance of buildings and structures. The requirements of this chapter shall not provide the basis for removal or abrogation of energy conservation, fire protection and safety systems and devices in existing structures.
R501.4
New and replacement materials.Except as otherwise required or permitted by this code, materials permitted by the applicable code for new construction shall be used. Like materials shall be permitted for repairs, provided that hazards to life, health or property are not created. Hazardous materials shall not be used where the code for new construction would not allow their use in buildings of similar occupancy, purpose and location.
R501.5
Historic buildings.Provisions of this code relating to the construction, repair, alteration, restoration and movement of structures, and change of occupancy shall not be mandatory for historic buildings provided that a report has been submitted to the code official and signed by the owner, a registered design professional, or a representative of the State Historic Preservation Office or the historic preservation authority having jurisdiction, demonstrating that compliance with that provision would threaten, degrade or destroy the historic form, fabric or function of the building.
R501.6
Change in space conditioning. Any unconditioned or low-energy space that is altered to become conditioned space shall berequired to be brought into full compliance with Section R502.Exception: Where the simulated performance option in Section R405 is used to comply with this section, the annual energy cost of the proposed design is permitted to be 110 percent of the annual energy cost otherwise allowed by Section R405.2.
SECTION
R502—ADDITIONS
R502.1
General.Additions to an existing building, building system or portion thereof shall conform to the provisions of this code as those provisions relate to new construction. Additions shall not create an unsafe or hazardous condition or overload existing building systems.
R502.2
Prescriptive compliance.Additions shall comply with Sections R502.2.1 through R502.2.5.
R502.2.1 Building thermal envelope. New building thermal envelope assemblies that are part of the addition shall comply withSections R402.1, R402.2, R402.4.1 through R402.4.5, and R402.5.Exception: New building thermal envelope assemblies are exempt from the requirements of Section R402.5.1.2.
R502.2.2
Heating and cooling systems. HVAC ductwork newly installed as part of an addition shall comply with Section R403.Exception: Where ductwork from an existing heating and cooling system is extended to an addition, Sections R403.3.7 andR403.3.8 shall not be required.
R502.2.3 Service hot water systems. New service hot water systems that are part of the addition shall comply with Section R403.5.
R502.2.4 Lighting.New lighting systems that are part of the addition shall comply with Section R404.1.
R502.2.5 Additional energy efficiency credit requirements for additions. Additions shall comply with sufficient measures from Table R408.2 to achieve not less than five credits. Alterations to the existing building that are not part of the addition but are permitted with an addition shall be permitted to be used to achieve this requirement.Exceptions:1. Additions that increase the building’s total conditioned floor area by less than 25 percent.2. Additions that do not include the addition or replacement of equipment covered in Section R403.5 or R403.7.3. Additions that do not increase conditioned space.4. Where the addition alone or the existing building and addition together comply with Section R405 or R406.
SECTION
R503—ALTERATIONS
R503.1
General.Alterations to any building or structure shall comply with the requirements of the code for new construction, without requiring the unaltered portions of the existing building or building system to comply with this code. Alterations shall be such that the existing building or structure is not less conforming to the provisions of this code than the existing building or structure was prior to the alteration.Alterations shall not create an unsafe or hazardous condition or overload existing building systems. Alterations shall be such that the existing building or structure does not use more energy than the existing building or structure prior to the alteration. Alterations to existing buildings shall comply with Sections R503.1.1 through R503.1.5.
R503.1.1
Building thermal envelope.Alterations of existing building thermal envelope assemblies shall comply with this section. New building thermal envelope assemblies that are part of the alteration shall comply with Section R402. The R-value of insulation shall not be reduced, nor the U-factor of a building thermal envelope assembly increased as part of a building thermal envelope alteration except where the building after the alteration complies with Section R405 or R406.Exception: The following alterations shall not be required to comply with the requirements for new construction provided that the energy use of the building is not increased:1. Storm windows installed over existing fenestration.2. Roof recover.3. Surface-applied window film installed on existing single pane fenestration assemblies to reduce solar heat gain provided that the code does not require the glazing or fenestration assembly to be replaced.4. Roof replacement where roof assembly insulation is integral to or located below the structural roof deck.
R503.1.1.1
Fenestration alterations.Where new fenestration area is added to an existing building, the new fenestration shall comply with Section R402.4. Where some or all of an existing fenestration unit is replaced with a new fenestration product, including sash and glazing, the replacement fenestration unit shall meet the applicable requirements for U-factor and solar heat gain coefficient (SHGC) as specified in Table R402.1.3. Where more than one replacement fenestration unit is to be installed, an area-weighted average of the U-factor, SHGC or both of all replacement fenestration units shall be an alternative that can be used to show compliance.
R503.1.1.2 Roof, ceiling and attic alterations.Roof, ceiling and attic insulation shall comply with Section R402.1. Alternatively, where limiting conditions prevent compliance with Section R402.1, an approved design that minimizes deviation from Section R402.1 shall be provided for the following alterations:1. An alteration to roof/ceiling construction other than reroofing where existing insulation located below the roof deck or an attic floor above conditioned space does not comply with Table R402.1.3.2. Roof replacements or a roof alteration that includes removing and replacing the roof covering where the roof assembly includes insulation entirely above the roof deck. Where limiting conditions require use of an approved design to minimize deviation from Section R402.1 for a Group R-2 building, a registered design professional or other approved source shall provide construction documents that identify the limiting conditions and the means to address them.3. Conversion of an unconditioned attic space into conditioned space.4. Replacement of ceiling finishes exposing cavities or surfaces of the roof/ceiling.
R503.1.1.3
Above-grade wall alterations.Above-grade wall alterations shall comply with the following as applicable:1. Where wall cavities are exposed, the exposed cavities shall be filled with insulation complying with Section R303.1.4. New cavities created shall be insulated in accordance with Section R402.1 or an approved design that minimizes deviation from Section R402.1. An interior vapor retarder shall be provided where required in accordance with Section R702.7 of the International Residential Code or Section 1404.3 of the International Building Code, as applicable.2. Where exterior wall coverings and fenestration are added or replaced for the full extent of any exterior facade of one or more elevations of the building, continuous insulation shall be provided where required in accordance with Section R402.1 or the wall insulation shall be in accordance with an approved design that minimizes deviation from Section R402.1. Where specified, the continuous insulation requirement also shall comply with Section R702.7 of the International Residential Code. Replacement exterior wall coverings shall comply with the water-resistance requirements of Section R703.1.1 of the International Residential Code or Section 1402.2 of the International Building Code, as applicable, and manufacturers’ instructions.3. Where new interior finishes or exterior wall coverings are applied to the full extent of any exterior wall assembly of mass construction, insulation shall be provided in accordance with Section R402.1 or an approved design that minimizes deviation from Section R402.1.
R503.1.1.4
Floor alterations. Where cavities in a floor or floor overhang are exposed and the floor or floor overhang is part of thebuilding thermal envelope, the floor or floor overhang shall comply with Section R402.1 or an approved design.
R503.1.1.5 Below-grade wall alterations.Where an unconditioned below-grade space is changed to conditioned space, the building thermal envelope walls enclosing such space shall be insulated in accordance with Section R402.1. Where the below-grade space is conditioned space and where building thermal envelope walls enclosing such space are altered, they shall be insulated in accordance with Section R402.1.
R503.1.1.6
Air barrier.Altered building thermal envelope assemblies shall be provided with an air barrier in accordance with Section R402.5. Such an air barrier need not be continuous with unaltered portions of the building thermal envelope. Testing requirements of Section R402.5.1.2 shall not be required.
R503.1.2 Heating and cooling systems.New heating and cooling systems and ductwork that are part of the alteration shall complywith Section R403 and this section. Alterations to existing heating and cooling systems and ductwork shall comply with this section.Exception: Where ductwork from an existing heating and cooling system is extended.
R503.1.2.1
Ductwork.HVAC ductwork newly installed as part of an alteration shall comply with Section R403.Exception: Where ductwork from an existing heating and cooling system is extended.
R503.1.2.2
System sizing.New heating and cooling equipment that is part of an alteration shall be sized in accordance with Section R403.7 based on the existing building features as modified by the alteration.Exception: Where it has been demonstrated to the code official that compliance with this section would result in heating or cooling equipment that is incompatible with the remaining portions of the existing heating or cooling system.
R503.1.2.3
Duct system leakage.Where an alteration includes any of the following, duct systems shall be tested in accordance with Section R403.3.7 and shall have a total leakage less than or equal to 12.0 cubic feet per minute (339.9 L/min) per 100 square feet (9.29 m2) of conditioned floor area:1. Twenty-five percent or more of the registers that are part of the duct system are relocated.2. Twenty-five percent or more of the total length of all ductwork in the duct system is relocated.3. The total length of all ductwork in the duct system is increased by 25 percent or more.Exception: Duct systems located entirely inside a conditioned space in accordance with Section R403.3.4.
R503.1.2.4
Controls.New heating and cooling equipment that is part of the alteration shall comply with Sections R403.1 and R403.2.
R503.1.3
Service hot water systems.New service hot water systems that are part of the alteration shall comply with Section R403.5.
R503.1.4
Lighting.New lighting systems that are part of the alteration shall comply with Section R404.1.Exception: Alterations that replace less than 10 percent of the luminaires in a space, provided that such alterations do not increase the installed interior lighting power.
R503.1.5
Additional efficiency credit requirements for substantial improvements.Substantial improvements shall comply with sufficient measures from Table R408.2 to achieve not less than three credits.Exceptions:1. Alterations that are permitted with an addition complying with Section R502.2.5.2. Alterations that comply with Section R405 or R406.3. Substantial improvements that do not include the addition or replacement of equipment covered in either Section R403.5 or R403.7.
SECTION
R504—REPAIRS
R504.1
General.Buildings, structures and parts thereof shall be repaired in compliance with Section R501.3 and this section. Work on nondamaged components necessary for the required repair of damaged components shall be considered to be part of the repair and shall not be subject to the requirements for alterations in this chapter. Routine maintenance required by Section R501.3, ordinary repairs exempt from permit, and abatement of wear due to normal service conditions shall not be subject to the requirements for repairs in this section.
R504.2
Application.For the purposes of this code, the following shall be considered to be repairs:1.Glass-only replacements in an existing sash and frame.2.Roof repairs.3.Repairs where only the bulb, ballast or both within the existing luminaires in a space are replaced provided that the replacement does not increase the installed interior lighting power.
SECTION
R505—CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY OR USE
R505.1
General.Any space that is converted to a dwelling unit or portion thereof from another use or occupancy shall comply with this chapter.Exception: Where the simulated building performance option in Section R405 is used to comply with this section, the annualenergy cost of the proposed design is permitted to be 110 percent of the annual energy cost allowed by Section R405.2.
R505.1.1
Unconditioned space.Any unconditioned or low-energy space that is altered to become a conditioned space shall complywith Section R501.6.
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
•
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.