======================================================================
Chapter 2 [RE] Definitions
======================================================================

Chapter 1 Re Scope And Administration - International Energy Conservation Code and ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1-2022 (I
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2024
International Energy Conservation Code and ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1-2022 (IECC)
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2024 International Energy Conservation Code and ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1-2022 (IECC) 2024 International Green Construction Code Code (IgCC) 2024 International Zoning Code (IZC) 2024 International Wildland-Urban Interface Code (IWUIC) 2024 International Swimming Pool and Spa Code (ISPSC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
I-Codes
/
2024 International Energy Conservation Code and ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1-2022 (IECC)
Chapter 1 [RE] Scope and Administration
2024 International Energy Conservation Code and ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1-2022 (IECC)
favorite_border
Version:
Jan 2025
Contents
Notes
Overview
Copyright
Foreword
Copyright
New Design for the 2024 International Codes
Preface
Formatting Changes to the 2024 International Codes
About the I-Codes
Introduction to the International Energy Conservation Code
Arrangement and Format of the 2024 IECC
Relocation of Text or Tables
Abbreviations and Notations
IECC—Commercial Provisions
Chapter 1 [CE] Scope and Administration
Chapter 2 [CE] Definitions
Chapter 3 [CE] General Requirements
Chapter 4 [CE] Commercial Energy Efficiency
Chapter 5 [CE] Existing Buildings
Chapter 6 [CE] Referenced Standards
Appendix CA Board of Appeals—Commercial
Appendix CB Solar-Ready Zone—Commercial
Appendix CC Zero Energy Commercial Building Provisions
Appendix CD the 2030 Glide Path
Appendix CE Required Hvac Total System Performance Ratio (Tspr)
Appendix CF Energy Credits
Appendix CG Electric Vehicle Charging Infrastructure
Appendix CH Electric-Ready Commercial Building Provisions
Appendix CI Demand Responsive Controls
Appendix CJ Electrical Energy Storage System
Index
Resource Cra All-Electric Commercial Building Provisions
Resource Crb the 2030 Glide Path (Prescriptive)
IECC—Residential Provisions
Chapter 1 [RE] Scope and Administration
Part 1 Scope and Application
Part 2 Administration and Enforcement
Chapter 2 [RE] Definitions
Chapter 3 [RE] General Requirements
Chapter 4 [RE] Residential Energy Efficiency
Chapter 5 [RE] Existing Buildings
Chapter 6 [RE] Referenced Standards
Appendix RA Board of Appeals—Residential
Appendix RB Solar-Ready Provisions—Detached One- and Two-Family Dwellings and Townhouses
Appendix RC Zero Net Energy Residential Building Provisions
Appendix RD Electric Energy Storage Provisions
Appendix RE Electric Vehicle Charging Infrastructure
Appendix RF Alternative Building Thermal Envelope Insulation R-Value Options
Appendix RG 2024 IECC Stretch Code
Appendix RH Operational Carbon Rating and Energy Reporting
Appendix RI On-Site Renewable Energy
Appendix RJ Demand Responsive Controls
Appendix RK Electric-Ready Residential Building Provisions
Appendix RL Renewable Energy Infrastructure
Index
Resource Rra All-Electric Residential Buildings
Editorial Changes – Second Printing
Ansi/Ashrae/Ies Standard 90.1-2022
Copyright
Ashrae Standard Project Committee 90.1 (2019–2022) Cognizant Tc: 7.6 Systems Energy Utilization Spls Liaison: Jennifer Isenbeck · Ashrae Staff Liaison: Emily Toto · Ies Liaison: Mark Lien
Foreword
1. Purpose
2. Scope
3. Definitions, Abbreviations, and Acronyms
4. Administration and Enforcement
5. Building Envelope
6. Heating, Ventilating, and Air Conditioning
7. Service Water Heating
8. Power
9. Lighting
10. Other Equipment
11. Additional Efficiency Requirements
12. Energy Cost Budget Method
13. Normative Reference
Normative Appendix a Rated R-Value of Insulation and Assembly U-Factor, C-Factor, and F-Factor Determinations
Informative Appendix B (Retained for Future Use)
Normative Appendix C Methodology for Building Envelope Trade-Off Option in Section 5.6
Informative Appendix D (Retained for Future Use)
Informative Appendix E Informative References
Informative Appendix F F U.s. Department of Energy Minimum Energy Efficiency Requirements, Test Procedures, and Definitions
Normative Appendix G Performance Rating Method
Informative Appendix H Additional Guidance for Verification, Testing, and Commissioning
Informative Appendix I Using Other Metrics in Conjunction with Appendix G Performance Rating Method When Approved by the Rating Authority
Normative Appendix J Sets of Performance Curves
Informative Appendix K Informative Figures—Thermal Bridges
Normative Appendix L Mechanical System Performance Rating Method
Informative Appendix M Addenda Description
Annex 1 Reference Standard Reproduction—Ashrae Standard 169
Ashrae · 1791 Tullie Circle Ne · Atlanta, Ga 30329 · Www.ashrae.org
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
CHAPTER
1 [RE] SCOPE AND ADMINISTRATIONUser notes:About this chapter: Chapter 1 establishes the limits of applicability of this code and describes how the code is to be applied and enforced. Chapter 1 is in two parts: Part 1—Scope and Application (Sections R101 and R102) and Part 2—Administration and Enforcement (Sections R103– R110). Section R101 identifies which buildings and structures come under its purview and references other I-Codes as applicable. Standards and codes are scoped to the extent referenced (see Section R102.4).This code is intended to be adopted as a legally enforceable document, and it cannot be effective without adequate provisions for its administration and enforcement. The provisions of Chapter 1 establish the authority and duties of the code official appointed by the authority having jurisdiction and also establish the rights and privileges of the design professional, contractor and property owner.QR code use: A QR code is placed at the beginning of any section that has undergone technical revision. To see those revisions, scan the QR code with a smart device or enter the 7-digit code beneath the QR code at the end of the following URL: qr.iccsafe.org/ (see Formatting Changes to the 2024 International Codes for more information).
PART 1—SCOPE AND APPLICATION
SECTION
R101—SCOPE AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
R101.1
Title.This code shall be known as the Energy Conservation Code of [NAME OF JURISDICTION] and shall be cited as such. It is referred to herein as “this code.”
R101.2
Scope.This code applies to the design and construction of detached one- and two-family dwellings and multiple single-family dwellings (townhouses) and Group R-2, R-3 and R-4 buildings three stories or less in height above grade plane.
R101.2.1
Appendices.Provisions in the appendices shall not apply unless specifically adopted.
R101.3
Intent.The IECC—Residential Provisions provide market-driven, enforceable requirements for the design and construction of residential buildings, providing minimum efficiency requirements for buildings that result in the maximum level of energy efficiency that is safe, technologically feasible, and life cycle cost-effective, considering economic feasibility, including potential costs and savings for consumers and building owners, and return on investment. Additionally, the code provides jurisdictions with optional supplemental requirements, including requirements that lead to achievement of zero energy buildings, presently, and, through glidepaths that achieve zero energy buildings by 2030 and on additional timelines sought by governments, and achievement of additional policy goals as identified by the Energy and Carbon Advisory Council and approved by the Board of Directors. The code may include nonmandatory appendices incorporating additional energy efficiency and greenhouse gas reduction resources developed by the International Code Council and others. Requirements contained in the code will include, but not be limited to, prescriptive- and performance-based pathways. The code will aim to simplify code requirements to facilitate the code’s use and compliance rate. The code is updated on a 3-year cycle with each subsequent edition providing increased energy savings over the prior edition. The IECC residential provisions shall include an update to Chapter 11 of the International Residential Code. This code is intended to provide flexibility to permit the use of innovative approaches and techniques to achieve this intent. This code is not intended to abridge safety, health or environmental requirements contained in other applicable codes or ordinances.
R101.4
Compliance.Residential buildings shall meet the provisions of IECC—Residential Provisions. Commercial buildings shall meet the provisions of IECC—Commercial Provisions.
R101.4.1
Compliance materials.The code official shall be permitted to approve specific computer software, worksheets, compliance manuals and other similar materials that meet the intent of this code.
SECTION
R102—APPLICABILITY
R102.1
Applicability.Where, in any specific case, different sections of this code specify different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most restrictive shall govern. Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall govern.
R102.1.1
Mixed residential and commercial buildings.Where a building includes both residential building and commercial building portions, each portion shall be separately considered and meet the applicable provisions of the IECC—Commercial Provisions or IECC—Residential Provisions.
R102.2
Other laws.The provisions of this code shall not be deemed to nullify any provisions of local, state or federal law.
R102.3
Application of references.References to chapter or section numbers, or to provisions not specifically identified by number,shall be construed to refer to such chapter, section or provision of this code.
R102.4
Referenced codes and standards.The codes and standards referenced in this code shall be those indicated in Chapter 6, and such codes and standards shall be considered as part of the requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each such reference and as further regulated in Sections R102.4.1 and R102.4.2.
R102.4.1
Conflicts.Where conflicts occur between provisions of this code and referenced codes and standards, the provisions ofthis code shall apply.
R102.4.2
Provisions in referenced codes and standards.Where the extent of the reference to a referenced code or standard includes subject matter that is within the scope of this code, the provisions of this code, as applicable, shall take precedence over the provisions in the referenced code or standard.
R102.5
Partial invalidity.If a portion of this code is held to be illegal or void, such a decision shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this code.
PART 2—ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION
R103—CODE COMPLIANCE AGENCY
R103.1
Creation of enforcement agency.The [INSERT NAME OF DEPARTMENT] is hereby created and the official in charge thereof shall be known as the authority having jurisdiction (AHJ). The function of the agency shall be the implementation, administration and enforcement of the provisions of this code.
R103.2
Appointment.The AHJ shall be appointed by the chief appointing authority of the jurisdiction.
R103.3
Deputies.In accordance with the prescribed procedures of this jurisdiction and with the concurrence of the appointing authority, the AHJ shall have the authority to appoint a deputy AHJ, other related technical officers, inspectors and other employees. Such employees shall have powers as delegated by the AHJ.
SECTION
R104—ALTERNATIVE MATERIALS, DESIGN AND METHODS OF CONSTRUCTION AND EQUIPMENT
R104.1
General.The provisions of this code are not intended to prevent the installation of any material or to prohibit any design or method of construction not specifically prescribed by this code, provided that any such alternative has been approved. The code official shall have the authority to approve an alternative material, design or method of construction upon the written application of the owner or the owner’s authorized agent. The code official shall first find that the proposed design is satisfactory and complies with the intent of the provisions of this code, and that the material, method or work offered is, for the purpose intended, not less than the equivalent of that prescribed in this code for strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability, energy conservation and safety. The code official shall respond to the applicant, in writing, stating the reasons why the alternative was approved or was not approved.
R104.1.1
Above code programs.The code official or other AHJ shall be permitted to deem a national, state or local energy-efficiency program to exceed the energy efficiency required by this code. Buildings approved in writing by such an energy-efficiency program shall be considered to be in compliance with this code where such buildings also meet the requirements identified in Table R405.2 and the proposed total building thermal envelope thermal conductance (TC) shall be less than or equal to the total building thermal envelope TC using the prescriptive U-factors and F-factors from Table R402.1.2 multiplied by 1.08 in Climate Zones 0, 1 and 2, and by 1.15 in Climate Zones 3 through 8, in accordance with Equation 1-1. The area-weighted maximum fenestration solar heat gain coefficients (SHGC) permitted in Climate Zones 0 through 3 shall be 0.30.Equation 1–1
SECTION
R105—CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS
R105.1
General.Construction documents, technical reports and other supporting data shall be submitted in one or more sets, or in a digital format where allowed by the code official, with each application for a permit. The construction documents and technical reports shall be prepared by a registered design professional where required by the statutes of the jurisdiction in which the project is to be constructed. Where special conditions exist, the code official is authorized to require necessary construction documents to be prepared by a registered design professional.Exception: The code official is authorized to waive the requirements for construction documents or other supporting data if the code official determines they are not necessary to confirm compliance with this code.
R105.2
Information on construction documents.Construction documents shall be drawn to scale on suitable material. Electronic media documents are permitted to be submitted where approved by the code official. Construction documents shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the location, nature and extent of the work proposed, and show in sufficient detail pertinent data and features of the building, systems and equipment as herein governed. Details shall include the following as applicable:1. Energy compliance path.2. Insulation materials and their R-values.3. Fenestration U-factors and solar heat gain coefficients (SHGC).4. Area-weighted U-factor and solar heat gain coefficients (SHGC) calculations.5. Mechanical system design criteria.6. Mechanical and service water-heating systems and equipment types, sizes and efficiencies.7. Equipment and system controls.8. Duct sealing, duct and pipe insulation and location.9. Air sealing details.
R105.2.1
Building thermal envelope depiction.The building thermal envelope shall be represented on the construction documents.
R105.2.2
Solar-ready system.Where a solar-ready zone is provided, the construction documents shall indicate details for a dedicated roof area for the solar-ready zone, roof dead load, roof live load, ground snow load and the routing of conduit or prewiring from the solar-ready zone to an electrical service panel or plumbing from the solar-ready zone to a service water heating system.
R105.3
Examination of documents.The code official shall examine or cause to be examined the accompanying construction documents and shall ascertain whether the construction indicated and described is in accordance with the requirements of this code and other pertinent laws or ordinances. The code official is authorized to utilize a registered design professional, or other approved entity not affiliated with the building design or construction, in conducting the review of the plans and specifications for compliance with the code.
R105.3.1
Approval of construction documents.When the code official issues a permit where construction documents are required, the construction documents shall be endorsed in writing and stamped “Reviewed for Code Compliance.” Such approved construction documents shall not be changed, modified or altered without authorization from the code official. Work shall be done in accordance with the approved construction documents.One set of construction documents so reviewed shall be retained by the code official. The other set shall be returned to the applicant, kept at the site of work and shall be open to inspection by the code official or a duly authorized representative.
R105.3.2
Previous approvals.This code shall not require changes in the construction documents, construction or designated occupancy of a structure for which a lawful permit has been heretofore issued or otherwise lawfully authorized, and the construction of which has been pursued in good faith within 180 days after the effective date of this code and has not been abandoned.
R105.3.3
Phased approval.The code official shall have the authority to issue a permit for the construction of part of an energy conservation system before the construction documents for the entire system have been submitted or approved, provided adequate information and detailed statements have been filed complying with all pertinent requirements of this code. The holders of such permit shall proceed at their own risk without assurance that the permit for the entire energy conservation system will be granted.
R105.4
Amended construction documents.Work shall be installed in accordance with the approved construction documents, and any changes made during construction that are not in compliance with the approved construction documents shall be resubmitted for approval as an amended set of construction documents.
R105.5
Retention of construction documents.One set of approved construction documents shall be retained by the code official for a period of not less than 180 days from date of completion of the permitted work, or as required by state or local laws.
SECTION
R106—FEES
R106.1
Payment of fees.A permit shall not be valid until the fees prescribed by law have been paid. Nor shall an amendment to a permit be released until the additional fee, if any, has been paid.
R106.2
Schedule of permit fees.Where a permit is required, a fee for each permit shall be paid as required, in accordance with the schedule as established by the applicable governing authority.
R106.3
Permit valuation.The applicant for a permit shall provide an estimated value of the work for which the permit is being issued at the time of application. Such estimated valuations shall include the total value of the work, including materials and labor. Where, in the opinion of the code official, the valuation is underestimated, the permit shall be denied unless the applicant can show detailed estimates acceptable to the code official. The final valuation shall be approved by the code official.
R106.4
Work commencing before permit issuance.Any person who commences any work before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to an additional fee established by the code official that shall be in addition to the required permit fees.
R106.5
Related fees.The payment of the fee for the construction, alteration, removal or demolition of work done in connection to or concurrently with the work or activity authorized by a permit shall not relieve the applicant or holder of the permit from the payment of other fees that are prescribed by law.
R106.6
Refunds.The code official is authorized to establish a refund policy.
SECTION
R107—INSPECTIONS
R107.1
General.Construction or work for which a permit is required shall be subject to inspection by the code official or his or her designated agent, and such construction or work shall remain visible and able to be accessed for inspection purposes until approved. It shall be the duty of the permit applicant to cause the work to remain visible and able to be accessed for inspection purposes. Neither the code official nor the jurisdiction shall be liable for expense entailed in the removal or replacement of any material, product, system or building component required to allow inspection to validate compliance with this code.
R107.2
Required inspections.The code official or his or her designated agent, upon notification, shall make the inspections set forth in Sections R107.2.1 through R107.2.7.
R107.2.1
Footing and foundation inspection.Inspections associated with footings and foundations shall verify compliance with the code as to R-value, location, thickness, depth of burial and protection of insulation as required by the code and approved plans and specifications.
R107.2.2
Framing and air barrier rough-in inspection.Air barrier inspections at framing and rough-in shall be made before the application of air permeable insulation and shall be used to verify compliance with this code and approved plans and specifications. Exterior air barriers shall be permitted to be inspected after insulation is installed.
R107.2.3
Plumbing rough-in inspection.Inspections at plumbing rough-in shall verify compliance as required by the code and approved plans and specifications as to types of insulation and corresponding R-values and protection, and required controls. Where a solar-ready zone is provided for a solar thermal system, inspections shall verify pathways for routing of plumbing from solar-ready zone to service water heating system.
R107.2.4
Mechanical rough-in inspection.Inspections at mechanical rough-in shall verify compliance as required by the code and approved plans and specifications as to installed HVAC equipment type and size, required controls, system insulation and corresponding R-value, system air leakage control, programmable thermostats, dampers, whole-house ventilation, and minimum fan efficiency.Exception: Systems serving multiple dwelling units shall be inspected in accordance with Section C107.2.4.
R107.2.5
Electrical rough-in inspection.Inspections at electrical rough-in shall verify compliance as required by the code and the approved plans and specifications as to the locations, distribution and capacity of the electrical system. Where the solar-ready zone is installed for electricity generation, inspections shall verify conduit or prewiring from solar-ready zone to electrical panel.
R107.2.6
Insulation and fenestration rough-in inspection.Inspections at insulation and fenestration rough-in shall be made before the application of interior finish and shall be used to verify compliance with this code as to types of insulation, corresponding R-values and their correct location and proper installation; and fenestration properties such as U-factors, SHGC and proper installation.
R107.2.7
Final inspection.The building shall have a final inspection and shall not be occupied until approved. The final inspection shall include verification of the installation of all required building systems, equipment and controls and their proper operation and the required number of high-efficacy lamps and fixtures.
R107.3
Reinspection.A building shall be reinspected where determined necessary by the code official.
R107.4
Approved third-party inspection agencies.The code official is authorized to accept reports of third-party inspection agencies not affiliated with the building design or construction, provided that such agencies are approved as to qualifications and reliability relevant to the building components and systems that they are inspecting or testing, and approval is granted prior to issuance of the building permit.
R107.4.1
Authorization of approved third-party inspection agency.An approved third-party inspection agency shall provide all requested information for the code official to determine that the agency meets the applicable requirements specified in Sections R107.4.1.1 through R107.4.1.3 and to authorize its work in the jurisdiction.
R107.4.1.1
Independence.An approved third-party inspection agency shall be an independent business identity. The agency shall perform its duties in accordance with the scope of delegated responsibilities established by the code official. The agency shall disclose to the code official any conflicts of interest, including where fees for service are derived. The agency shall acknowledge in writing that it is authorized to work only within the scope of delegated responsibilities.
R107.4.1.2
Equipment.An approved third-party inspection agency shall have adequate equipment to perform inspections and tests required by the code official and this code. All testing equipment shall be periodically calibrated as required by the manufacturer, testing standards used in this code or certifications held by the approved third-party inspection agency.
R107.4.1.3
Personnel.Personnel assigned by an approved third-party inspection agency to perform inspections and testing shall be trained or credentialed, and documentation of training or credentials shall be available to the code official upon request.
R107.4.1.4
Delegated authority.Where approved, a third-party inspection agency shall have the authority to perform delegated inspections and determine compliance or noncompliance of work with approved construction documents.
R107.4.2
Approved third-party inspection agency reporting.An approved third-party inspection agency shall keep records of delegated inspections, tests and compliance documentation required by this code. The agency shall submit reports of delegated inspections and tests to the code official and to the owner or owner’s representative. Reports shall indicate the compliance determination for the inspected or tested work based on approved construction documents. A final report documenting required delegated inspections and tests, and correction of any discrepancies noted in the inspections or tests, shall be submitted with other required compliance documentation at a time required by the code official.
R107.5
Inspection requests.It shall be the duty of the holder of the permit or their duly authorized agent to notify the code official when work is ready for inspection. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to provide access to and means for inspections of such work that are required by this code.
R107.6
Reinspection and testing.Where any work or installation does not pass an initial test or inspection, the necessary corrections shall be made to achieve compliance with this code. The work or installation shall then be resubmitted to the code official for inspection and testing.
SECTION
R108—NOTICE OF APPROVAL
R108.1
Approval.After the prescribed tests and inspections indicate that the work complies in all respects with this code, a notice of approval shall be issued by the code official.
R108.2
Revocation.The code official is authorized to, in writing, suspend or revoke a notice of approval issued under the provisions of this code wherever the certificate is issued in error, or on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or where it is determined that the building or structure, premise, or portion thereof is in violation of any ordinance or regulation or any of the provisions of this code.
SECTION
R109—MEANS OF APPEALS
R109.1
General.In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations made by the code official relative to the application and interpretation of this code, there shall be and is hereby created a board of appeals. The board of appeals shall be appointed by the applicable governing authority and shall hold office at its pleasure. The board shall adopt rules of procedure for conducting its business and shall render all decisions and findings in writing to the appellant with a duplicate copy to the code official.
R109.2
Limitations on authority.An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply or an equivalent or better form of construction is proposed. The board shall not have authority to waive requirements of this code.
R109.3
Qualifications.The board of appeals shall consist of members who are qualified by experience and training on matterspertaining to the provisions of this code and are not employees of the jurisdiction.
R109.4
Administration.The code official shall take action in accordance with the decision of the board.
SECTION
R110—STOP WORK ORDER
R110.1
Authority.Where the code official finds any work regulated by this code being performed in a manner contrary to the provisions of this code or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, the code official is authorized to issue a stop work order.
R110.2
Issuance.The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, the owner’s authorized agent or the person performing the work. Upon issuance of a stop work order, the cited work shall immediately cease. The stop work order shall state the reason for the order and the conditions under which the cited work is authorized to resume.
R110.3
Emergencies.Where an emergency exists, the code official shall not be required to give a written notice prior to stopping the work.
R110.4
Failure to comply.Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to fines established by the AHJ.
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
•
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.