======================================================================
Appendix B Flood-Resistant Construction
======================================================================

Appendix A Guidelines For Seismic Evaluation And Retrofit Of Existing Buildings - Building Code of Pakistan
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2021
Building Code of Pakistan
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2021 Building Code of Pakistan 2024 International Energy Conservation Code and ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1-2022 (IECC) 2024 International Green Construction Code Code (IgCC) 2024 International Zoning Code (IZC) 2024 International Wildland-Urban Interface Code (IWUIC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
Pakistan
/
2021 Building Code of Pakistan
Appendix A Guidelines for Seismic Evaluation and Retrofit of Existing Buildings
2021 Building Code of Pakistan
favorite_border
2021 IBC
Amended
Version:
Sep 2021
Contents
Notes
Overview
Copyright
Preface
Acknowledgements
Source Documents
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Chapter 2 Definitions
Chapter 3 Occupancy Classification and Use
Chapter 4 Special Detailed Requirements Based on Occupancy and Use
Chapter 5 General Building Heights and Areas
Chapter 6 Types of Construction
Chapter 7 Reserved
Chapter 8 Interior Finishes
Chapter 9 Reserved
Chapter 10 Reserved
Chapter 11 Accessibility
Chapter 12 Interior Environment
Chapter 13 Reserved
Chapter 14 Exterior Walls
Chapter 15 Roof Assemblies and Rooftop Structures
Chapter 16 Structural Design
Chapter 17 Special Inspections and Tests
Chapter 18 Soils and Foundations
Chapter 19 Concrete
Chapter 20 Aluminum
Chapter 21 Masonry
Chapter 22 Steel
Chapter 23 Wood
Chapter 24 Glass and Glazing
Chapter 25 Gypsum Board, Gypsum Panel Products and Plaster
Chapter 26 Plastic
Chapter 27 Electrical
Chapter 28 Mechanical Systems
Chapter 29 Plumbing Systems
Chapter 30 Elevators and Conveying Systems
Chapter 31 Special Construction
Chapter 32 Encroachments Into the Public Right-Of-Way
Chapter 33 Safeguards During Construction
Chapter 34 Referenced Standards
Appendix A Guidelines for Seismic Evaluation and Retrofit of Existing Buildings
Section A101 General
Section A102 Notations
Section A103 Referenced Standards
Section A104 Performance Objectives and Seismic Hazards
Section A105 Evaluation and Retrofit Requirements
Section A106 Tier 1 Screening
Section A107 Asce/Sei 41-17 Tier 2 Deficiency-Based Evaluation and Retrofit
Section A108 Tier 3 Systematic Evaluation and Retrofit
Section A109 Proposed Repair and Retrofit Guidelines
Appendix B Flood-Resistant Construction
Appendix C Mapped Earthquake Acceleration Parameters
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
Appendix AGUIDELINES FOR SEISMIC EVALUATION AND RETROFIT OF EXISTING BUILDINGSThe provisions contained in this appendix are not mandatory unless specifically referenced in the adopting ordinance.User notes:About this Appendix: This appendix provides guidelines for seismic evaluation and retrofit of existing buildings with special emphasis to low-rise masonry and RC frame buildings. The proposed provisions contained in this appendix are not mandatory unless specifically referenced in the Building Code of Pakistan 2021.
SECTION A101 GENERAL
A101.1 Scope.This appendix provides the guidelines for structural evaluation and retrofit design of existing buildings, structures and portions thereof regulated by the main text of this code. The evaluation methodologies are suggestive and are adopted from the ASCE/SEI 41-17 Seismic Evaluation arul Retrofit of Existing Buildings.
SECTION A102 NOTATIONS
A102.1 Notations.The following notations are used in this chapter:D=Dead load.E=Combined effect of horizontal and vertical earthquake induced forces as defined in Section 12.4 of ASCE 7.K=Knowledge factor.Sxs=Design short-period spectral response acceleration parameter, adjusted for Site Class, for determining Level ofSeismicity.Sx1=Design spectral response acceleration parameter at a 1-s period, adjusted for Site Class, for determining Levelof Seismicity.
SECTION
A103
REFERENCED STANDARDS
A101.1 Referenced Standards.The following documents can be used for further reference.a)ASCE 41-17 - American Society of Civil Engineers Standard, Seismic Evaluation and Retrofit of Existing Buildings.b)FEMA 356 - Technical Requirements for Seismic Rehabilitation of Buildings.c)FEMA 274 - NEHRP Commentary on the Guidelines for Seismic Rehabilitation of Buildings.d)ASCE 31-03 - American Society of Civil Engineers Standard; Seismic Evaluation of Existing Buildings.e)FEMA 310 - Federal Emergency Management Agency Standard; Handbook for Seismic Evaluation of ExistingBuilding.f)ACI 318 - American Concrete Institute Standard; Building Code Requirements for Structural Concrete.g)ACI 364.1 R-94 - American Concrete Institute Standard; Guide for Evaluation of Concrete Structures Prior to Rehabilitation.
SECTION A104 PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES AND SEISMIC HAZARDS
A104.1 Performance Objectives.A Performance Objective shall consist of one or more pairings of a selected Seismic Hazard Level, as defined in Section 2.4 of ASCE/SEI 41-17, with a target Structural Performance Level and a target Nonstructural Performance Level, defined in Sections 2.3.1 and 2.3.2 of ASCE/SEI 41-17, respectively.
A104.1.1 Basic Performance Objective for Existing Buildings (BPOE).When selected, the Basic Performance Objective for Existing Buildings (BPOE), which is a specified performance objective that varies with Risk Category, shall be in accordance with Table 2-1 of ASCE/SEI 41-17. Tier 1, Tier 2, or Tier 3 procedures are permitted to be used to demonstrate compliance with the BPOE based on the requirements in Table 2-2 of ASCE/SEI 41-17 and subject to the limitations on their use in Chapter 3 of ASCE/SEI 41-17.
A104.1.2 Basic Performance Objective Equivalent to New Building Standards (BPON).When selected, the Basic Performance Objective Equivalent to New Building Standards (BPON), which is a specific performance objective to be used only with Tier 3 systematic evaluation or retrofit that varies with Risk Category, shall be in accordance with Table 2-3 of ASCE/SEI 41-17.
A104.2 Target Building Performance Levels.A target Building Peiformance Level shall consist of a combination of a target Structural Performance Level from Section 2.3.1 of ASCE/SEI 41-17 and a target Nonstructural Performance Level from Section 2.3.2 of ASCE/SEI 41-17.
A104.3 Seismic Hazard.The seismic hazard caused by ground shaking shall be based on the location of the building with respect to causative faults, the regional and site-specific geologic and geotechnical characteristics, and the specified Seismic Hazard Levels. Assessment of the site-failure hazards caused by earthquake-induced geologic and geotechnical conditions shall be performed in accordance with Chapter 8 of ASCE/SEI 41-17. The site class shall be determined consistent with the requirements of Chapter 20 of ASCE 7. Seismic hazard caused by ground shaking shall be defined as acceleration response spectra or ground motion acceleration histories determined on either a probabilistic or deterministic basis. Acceleration response spectra shall be developed in accordance with either the general procedure of Section 2.4.1 or the site-specific procedure of Section 2.4.2 of ASCE/SEI 41-17. Ground motion acceleration histories shall be developed in accordance with Section 2.4.3 of ASCE/SEI 41-17. The Level of Seismicity of the site of the building shall be determined as specified in Section 2.5 of ASCE/SEI 41-17.
A104.3.1 General Procedure for Hazard Caused by Ground Shaking.The seismic hazard caused by ground shaking is defined for any Seismic Hazard Level using approved 5% damped response spectrum ordinates for short (0.2 s) and long (1 s) periods, in the direction of maximum horizontal response. The design short-period spectral response acceleration parameter, Sxs, and the design long-period response acceleration parameter, Sx1, shall be determined as follows:1.If the desired Seismic Hazard Level is BSE-2N, BSE-lN, BSE-2E, or BSE-lE, obtain the design spectral response acceleration parameters in accordance with Sections 2.4.1.1 through 2.4.1.4 of ASCE/SEI 41-17. (Refer to Appendix C for the spectral response acceleration maps for different return periods).2.If the desired Seismic Hazard Level is one for which approved seismic hazard maps are available either in print or electronically, obtain spectral response acceleration parameters directly from them. Values between map contour lines shall be interpolated between contour lines on either side of the site, or by using the value shown on the map for the higher contour adjacent to the site.3.If the desired Seismic Hazard Level is one for which approved probabilistic seismic hazard curves (but not maps) are available, obtain spectral response acceleration parameters directly from those curves per Section 2.4.1.5 of ASCE/SEI 41-17.4.Obtain the design spectral response acceleration parameters by adjusting the mapped or interpolated spectral response acceleration parameters for site class effects, in accordance with Section 2.4.1.6 of ASCE/SEI 41-17.5.Using the design spectral response acceleration parameters that have been adjusted for site class effects, develop the general response spectrum in accordance with Section 2.4.1.7 of ASCE/SEI 41-17.
A104.3.2 Site-Specific Procedure for Hazards Caused by Ground Shaking.Where site-specific ground-shaking characterization is used as the basis of evaluation or retrofit design, the characterization shall be developed in accordance with section 2.4.2 of ASCE/SEI 41-17. Development of site-specific response spectra shall be based on the geologic, seismologic, and soil characteristics associated with the specific site following the provisions of Chapter 21 of ASCE 7.
A104.3.3 Ground Motion Acceleration Histories.Development of ground motion acceleration histories shall be performed according to Section 16.2 of ASCE 7 with the modification prescribed in section 2.4.3 of ASCE/SEI 41-17.
A104.4 Level of Seismicity.The Level of Seismicity shall be defined as High, Moderate, Low, or Very Low as defined in Table 2-4 of ASCE/SEI 41-17.
SECTION A105 EVALUATION AND RETROFIT REQUIREMENTS
A105.1 General.This section contains general requirements for seismic evaluation and retrofit, including data collection, requirements for Benchmark Buildings, the evaluation and retrofit procedures, and limitations on their use in demonstrating or achieving compliance with the Performance Objectives specified in ASCE/SEI 41-17. This standard prescribes deficiency-based and systematic procedures that use performance-based principles to evaluate and retrofit existing buildings to withstand the effects of earthquakes. The standard presents a three-tiered process for seismic evaluation according to a range of building performance levels by connecting targeted structural performance and the performance of nonstructural components with seismic hazard levels.Checklists are provided for a variety of building types and seismicity levels in support of the Tier 1 screening process which helps provide evaluation statements for structural, non-structural aspects in the form of checklists for the chosen level of performance and given region of seismicity. For Tier 2, the design professional has two options: (a) a complete analysis of the building that addresses all of the deficiencies identified in Tier 1 or (b) a deficiency only analysis. This selection is based on the requirements of evaluation identified in Tier 1. In Tier 2 analysis and evaluation for the adequacy of the lateral-force-resisting system is performed. If deficiencies are identified in a Tier 2 evaluation, a Tier 3 evaluation is performed only if one finds that Tier 1 and/or Tier 2 evaluations are too conservative and there would be a significant economic or other advantage to a more detailed evaluation. Expected performance of existing components can be evaluated by comparing calculated demands on the components with their capacities.
A105.2 Structural Retrofitting Cost.It is suggested that the cost of retrofitted building should not exceed 40% of the cost of new building at the same site. Structural retrofitting cost should include the cost of refurbishment of the building up to a condition equal to or better than the new building at the same site. The buildings having a cultural or historical importance may be exempted from this requirement.
A105.3 As-Built Information.Before beginning an evaluation or retrofit in accordance with this standard, sufficient general information about the building shall be obtained to determine the permitted evaluation or retrofit procedures, in accordance with Section 3.3 of ASCE/SEI 41-17. This step includes determining the building type classification, in accordance with Section 3.2.1 of ASCE/SEI 41-17. Once a procedure has been selected, the required building data to be collected shall be in accordance with the requirements of this section, in addition to any data required for the specific procedures as identified in Chapters 4, 5, and 6 of ASCE/SEI 41-17.The as-built information on building configuration, building components, site and foundation, and adjacent structures shall be obtained in accordance with Sections 3.2.2, 3.2.3, 3.2.4, and 3.2.5 of ASCE/SEI 41-17, respectively. These data shall be obtained from available drawings, specifications, and other documents for the existing construction. Data collected from available documents shall be supplemented and verified by on-site investigations, including nondestructive examination and testing of building materials and components as required for the procedures in Chapters 4, 5, or 6 of ASCE/SEI 41-17. At least one site visit shall be made to observe exposed conditions of building configuration, building components, site and foundation, and adjacent structures, made accessible by the owner, to verify that as-built information obtained from other sources is representative of the existing conditions.
A105.4 Evaluation and Retrofit Procedures.Seismic evaluation or retrofit of the building shall be performed to demonstrate compliance with the selected Performance Objective in accordance with the requirements of sections 3.4.1 through 3.4.4 of ASCE/SEI 41-17. Section 3.4.1 covers the limitations on the use of the Tier 1 and Tier 2 procedures. Section 3.4.2 addresses the Tier 1 screening procedure for evaluation. Section 3.4.3 addresses the Tier 2 deficiencybased procedures for evaluation and retrofit. Section 3.4.4 addresses the Tier 3 systematic procedures for evaluation and retrofit. A building defined as one of the common building types, or those buildings that have seismic isolation or supplemental energy dissipation systems installed, that meet the requirements of Section 3.3 of ASCE/SEI 41-17, Benchmark Buildings, shall be deemed to meet the structural performance objective as defined in that section. The nonstructural performance must still be evaluated.
A105.4.1 Limitations on the Use of Tier 1 and Tier 2 Evaluation and Retrofit Procedures.The Tier 1 screening and Tier 2 deficiency-based procedures shall only be used with a Performance Objective that satisfies at least one of the following conditions:1.The Performance Objective involves a Seismic Hazard Level less than or equal to BSE-lE with a Structural Performance Level up to and including Immediate Occupancy (S-1) and/or a Nonstructural Performance Level up to and including Position Retention (N-B).2.The Performance Objective involves a Seismic Hazard Level greater than BSE-lE but less than or equal to BSE-2E with a Structural Performance Level up to and including Life Safety (S-3) and/or a Nonstructural Performance Level up to and including Life Safety (N-C).The selected Seismic Hazard Level shall be compared to BSE-lE or BSE-2E by comparing the respective values of SS and S1. In addition, the Tier 1 and Tier 2 procedures shall only be used for buildings that conform to the limitations of Table 3-4 and of Section 3.4.1.1 or 3.4.1.2 of ASCE/SEI 41-17.
A105.4.2 Tier 1 Screening Procedure.Seismic evaluation using the Tier 1 and Tier 2 procedures shall begin with the Tier 1 screening procedure, conducted in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 4 of ASCE/SEI 41-17.
A105.4.3 Tier 2 Deficiency-Based Evaluation and Retrofit Procedures.Where potential deficiencies were identified by the Tier 1 screening, a Tier 2 deficiency-based evaluation or retrofit may be performed in accordance with this section and Chapter 5 of ASCE/SEI 41-17.
A105.4.4 Tier 3 Systematic Evaluation and Retrofit Procedures.A Tier 3 systematic evaluation shall be performed in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 6 of ASCE/SEI 41-17 where required by Section 3.3.1 of ASCE/SEI 41-17. The Tier 3 systematic retrofit procedure in Chapter 6 of ASCE/SEI 41-17 shall be permitted for all retrofit designs and shall be required where Tier 2 deficiency-based retrofit is not permitted in accordance with Section 3.4.1 of ASCE/SEI 41-17.The Tier 3 systematic retrofit procedure includes the following steps:1.An evaluation shall be performed to identify potential seismic deficiencies.2.A preliminary retrofit scheme shall be developed using one or more of the retrofit strategies defined in Section 1.5 of ASCE/SEI 41-17.3.An analysis of the building, including retro fi t measures, shall be performed, to verify that the retrofit design meets the selected Performance Objective.4.Construction documents, including drawings, specifications, and a quality assurance plan, shall be developed as defined in Chapter 1 of ASCE/SEI 41-17.
SECTION A106 TIER 1 SCREENING
A106.1 General.During the screening phase the design professional gets familiarized with the building, its potential deficiencies and its expected behavior, so that one can quickly decide whether the building complies with the seismic provisions. This Tier 1 screening provided evaluation statements for structural, non-structural and foundation aspects in the form of Tier-1 Checklists (ASCE/SEI 41-17, Chapter 17) for the chosen level of performance and given region of seismicity. After the completion of checklists, lists of deficiencies that are found to be non-compliant are compiled and further requirements of evaluation are determined.
A106.2 Scope of Investigation Required.
A106.2.1 On-Site Investigation and Condition Assessment.Tier 1 screening shall be permitted to be based on available construction documents and other records, subject to the findings of an on-site investigation. An on-site investigation shall be conducted to verify general conformance of existing conditions to those described in available documents, to identify significant alterations or deviations from available documents, to supplement incomplete documents, to confirm the general quality of construction and maintenance, and otherwise as needed to complete the applicable Tier 1 checklists. Where required, limited nondestructive investigation of a representative sample of relevant conditions shall be performed for all Tier 1 Quick Checks. The on-site investigation shall include investigation of common, likely, or suspected construction defects and deterioration that could have significant effects on seismic performance. The scope of this investigation shall be permitted to be based on the judgment of the evaluator. The findings and documentation of this investigation shall be subject to the approval of the Authority Having Jurisdiction where required. In setting the scope of this investigation, the evaluator shall consider at least the defect and deterioration types given in Table 4-1 of ASCE/SEI 41-17.
A106.2.2 Building Type.The building type shall be classified as one or more of the building types listed in Table 3-1, based on the lateral-force-resisting system(s) and the diaphragm type. Separate building types shall be used for buildings with different lateral-force-resisting systems in different directions.
A106.2.3 Default Material Values.The use of default values is permitted for material properties for Tier 1 Quick Checks. The following default values are to be assumed unless otherwise indicated by the available construction documents, or by testing. Because these values and properties were taken from Chapters 7 - 10 of ASCE/SEI 41- 17, refer to these chapters for values of material properties for uses other than Tier 1 Quick Checks.fc'= (See Table 4-2, ASCE/SEI 41-17)fy = (See Table 4-3, ASCE/SEI 41-17)Fy = (See Tables 4-4 and 4-5, ASCE/SEI 41-17)E (structural and cold-formed steel) = 29,000 kip/in2. (200 GPa)Fpe = 25 kip (11 l.2kN)
A106.3 Preliminary Survey.Before the evaluation process, it is basic requirement to check the building physical condition under certain parameters including a well-defined load path (i.e. a load path ensuring that the load of all structural elements is safely transferred to the foundation). The buildings are classified into different types with respect to the type of structural framing system, configuration and material of construction. The checklists for immediate occupancy and collapse prevention are different for buildings constructed with different materials and type of structure/framing system. The requirement of collecting as-built information is already included in Tier 1 evaluation of ASCE/SEI 41-17. However, a simplified set of checklists is proposed in this section for an initial survey. The classification of buildings and simplified checklists are given below for the guidance of retrofit designer. This preliminary survey may comprise the following information.i)Building drawings and photographsii)General informationiii)Building type and structure featuresiv)Structure vulnerabilityv)Non structure vulnerabilityvi)Fire detection/suppressionvii)Elevatorsviii)In-fill walls, partitions and ceilingsix)Emergency exits and escape routesx)Appendagesxi)Hazard materialsxii)OthersMost of the simple buildings (single story or double story dwellings) may be evaluated only using the initial screening in accordance with Table A106.3. For the detailed checklists for all major types of buildings, the designer is referred to Chapter 17 of ASCE/SEI 41-17.
TABLE A106.3PROPOSED CHECK LISTS FOR SIMPLE BUILDINGS TO BE EVALUATED
Building drawings and photographs
Photos of structure (front, left, right and rear elevation)
Top-down sketch of structure's plan (to identify major irregularities only)
General InformationSr.No.Information1Name of Agency23Structure type4Address5Approximate year of construction7Occupancy8Number of Stories9Material usedBuilding / Structure Features (Additional Level 1 Survey fields) 10Seismic zone11Imminent Hazards12Soil type13Structure Type (Classification)14Built-up area (sq. m)Structural vulnerabilityS.NoStructural vulnerability IndicatorsYesNoN/A1Has the building been significantly altered?2Has the building been seismically-retrofitted?3Is the building regular in plan?4Are the columns regularly distributed?5Are both building directions adequately braced?6Is the ratio between the building's length and width> 2.5?7Does the building possess eccentric cores (staircases or elevators)?8Does the building have a soft story?9Is the building irreirular in elevation caused by setbacks of upper stories?10Does the building possess cantilevering upper stories?11Does the building possess a heavy mass at the top or at roof level?12Are pounding effects possible?13Does the building have short columns?14Do strong beams and weak columns exist?15Does the building possess shear walls?16Did the building suffer any significant structural damage in the past?Non-structural vulnerabilityS.NoNon-structural vulnerability indicatorsYesNoN/AElectrical facilities1Is an emergency generator available?2If yes, is it located outside the building? (if Q1 = NO ➔ N/A)3If yes, is it located in a clear, safe space? (if Q2 = NO ➔ N/A)4Is the generator firmly secured into its location? (if Q1 = NO ➔ N/A)5 Are switches and circuit breakers easily accessible?6Are there any "live" wires or other electrical hazards?Fire Detection/Suppression7Are smoke detectors and alarms installed/working?8Are there enough fire extinguishers, buckets, etc. available?9Are they easily accessible? (if Q8 = NO ➔ N/A)Elevators10Are elevators available?11Are elevators maintained and regularly inspected? (if Q10 = NO ➔ N/A)Non-structural Infill walls and partitions /Ceiling12Are (infill) brick/Block walls protected against out-of-plane failure by internal reinforcement or surface meshes?13Do movement joints between brick /Block infill walls and RC frames exist to allow damage-free movement? (for masonry buildings ➔ N/A)14Are suspended ceilings used?15Are the suspended ceilings adequately secured against failure? (if Q14 = NO ➔ N/AEmergency exits and escape routes16Do emergency exit doors open outward?17Are emergency exits unlocked and unencumbered?18Do large windows, door transoms and skylights employ safety glass?19Are emergency exits and escape routes clearly marked?20Are emergency exits and escape routes adequately illuminated?21 Does the exterior space around the structure provide sufficient refuge from vehicle traffic, surrounding structures, and other hazards for all building occupants?Appendages22 Do non-structural elements (e.g. parapets, facade cladding, roof tiles, chimneys, air conditioners, etc.) present a falling hazard to evacuees or pedestrians?Hazardous Materials23 Are gas cylinders or other explosive canisters firmly secured?24 Are fuel supplies, chemicals and other hazardous materials stored safely?Other25 Is further evaluation required?26 Other observations, if any:Classification of buildingsMaterialType of Load Bearing StructuresNomenclatureSub TypesMasonry ConstructionStone Masonry WallSM-1Random Rubble / field/ Pebbles / stones in mud/ lime mortar with timber/ GI roofSM-2Slates / tiles wall without mortar with timber/ GI roofSM-3Massive stone masonry with timber/ GI roofSM-4Unreinforced stone masonry wall with mud mortar with vertical post with wooden / GI roofBurnt Clay Brick / Block WallBM-1Unreinforced brick masonry wall with mud mortar with wooden / GI roofBM-2Unreinforced brick masonry wall with mud mortar with vertical post with wooden / GI roofBM-3Unreinforced brick masonry wall in cement mortar with RCC roofBM-4Unreinforced brick masonry wall with Lintel band and RCC roofConcrete Block MasonryCM-1Confined masonry wall with concrete columns and beamsCM-2Unreinforced in lime/ cement mortarCM-3Reinforced in cement mortarReinforced ConcreteMoment Resistant FrameMRCF-1Designed for gravity loadsMRCF-2Designed with seismic featuresMRCF-3Frame with unreinforced masonry infill wallsMRCF-4Frame with concrete shear wallsShear Wall StructureSWC-1Walls cast in situSWC-2Precast wall panel structureSteelMoment Resistant FrameMRSF-1With Brick partition wallMRSF-2With cast in situ concrete wallMRSF-3With light weight concrete wallLight Metal FrameLMF-1Single-story LM Frame structureWooden StructureLoad Bearing Timber FrameLBTF-1Post and beam frameLBTF-2Frame with masonry filledLBTF-3Frame with Plywood / gypsum board sheathingLBTF-4Frame with stud walls
A106.4 Selection and Use of Checklists for ASCE/SEI 41-17 Tier 1 Evaluation.The Tier 1 checklists are provided in Chapter 16 of ASCE/SEI 41-17. Required checklists, as a function of Level of Seismicity and Performance Level, are listed in Table 4-6 of ASCE/SEI 41-17. Each of the required checklists designated in Table 4-6 shall be completed for a Tier 1 screening. Each of the evaluation statements on the checklists shall be marked “Compliant” (C), “Noncompliant” (NC), “Not Applicable” (N/A), or “Unknown” (U). Compliant statements identify issues that are acceptable according to the criteria of this standard, whereas noncompliant or unknown statements identify issues that require further investigation to demonstrate compliance with the applicable Performance Objective. Certain evaluation statements may not apply to the specific building being evaluated.Quick Checks for Tier 1 shall be performed in accordance with Section 4.4 of ASCE/SEI 41-17 where necessary to complete an evaluation statement. The checklist for Very Low Seismicity, located in Section 17.1.1 of ASCE/SEI 41- 17, shall be completed for buildings in Very Low Seismicity being evaluated to the Collapse Prevention Performance Level. For buildings in Very Low Seismicity being evaluated to the Immediate Occupancy Performance Level and buildings in levels of Low, Moderate, or High Seismicity, the appropriate structural and nonstructural checklists shall be completed in accordance with Table 4-6 of ASCE/SEI 41-17.The appropriate structural checklists shall be selected based on the common building types defined in Table 3-1 of ASCE/SEI 41-17. Buildings being evaluated to the Collapse Prevention Performance Level shall use the applicable checklists in Chapter 17 of ASCE/SEI 41-17 for the Collapse Prevention Performance Level. Buildings being evaluated to the Immediate Occupancy Performance Level shall use the applicable checklists in Chapter 17 of ASCE/SEI 41-17 for the Immediate Occupancy Performance Level. Refer to Section 2.2.1 of ASCE/SEI 41-17 for the use of the Collapse Prevention checklists for evaluating buildings to the Life Safety and Limited Safety Performance Levels as applicable.A building with a different lateral-force-resisting system in each principal direction shall use two sets of structural checklists, one for each direction. A building with more than one type of lateral-force-resisting system along a single axis of the building being evaluated to the Collapse Prevention Performance Level, including changes in seismic-force-resisting system over the height, may be evaluated using the applicable checklist(s) in Chapter 17 subject to the requirements in Section 3.4.1.2.2 of ASCE/SEI 41-17.One nonstructural checklist is provided in Chapter 17, with a heading before each statement identifying if it applies to the Hazards Reduced, Life Safety, and Position Retention Performance Levels. Refer to Table 4-6 of ASCE/SEI 41-17 for the applicability of the nonstructural checklists. The overall process of Tier 1 evaluation is summarized in Figure 4- 1 of ASCE/SEI 41-17 and is reproduced here as Figure A-1.
Figure A-1Tier 1 Evaluation Process (Note: IO = Immediate Occupancy, LS = Life Safety)
A106.5 Tier 1 Analysis.Analyses performed as part of the Tier 1 screening process are limited to Quick Checks. Quick Checks shall be used to calculate the stiffness and strength of certain building components to determine whether the building complies with certain evaluation criteria. Quick Checks shall be performed in accordance with Section 4.4.3 where they are triggered by evaluation statements from the checklists of Chapter 17 of ASCE/SEI 41-17. Seismic forces for use in the Quick Checks shall be computed in accordance with Section 4.4.2 of ASCE/SEI 41-17.ASCE/SEI 41-17 TIER 2 DEFICIENCY-BASED EVALUATION AND RETROFIT" data-bookmark= "" class="section-action-wrapper v-card v-sheet theme--light v-card--flat pa-3 my-2 border border-transparent rounded-lg">SECTIONA107ASCE/SEI 41-17 TIER 2 DEFICIENCY-BASED EVALUATION AND RETROFIT
A107.1 Scope.This section contains the requirements for performing seismic evaluation and retrofit using the Tier 2 deficiency-based procedures. The overall process is summarized in Figure 5-1 of ASCE/SEI 41-17 and is reproduced below as Figure A-2. The Tier 2 deficiency-based evaluation requires additional analysis and evaluation of all the potential deficiencies identified in the Tier 1 screening (denoted by either "Noncompliant" or "Unknown" responses in the Tier 1 checklists). The additional analysis and evaluation of each potential deficiency shall be sufficient to either confirm the deficiency or demonstrate the adequacy of the structure as it relates to the potential deficiency. The evaluation shall, at a minimum, use the procedures specified in Sections 5.4 to 5.7 of ASCE/SEI 41-17. The scope of the Tier 2 deficiency-based evaluation need not expand beyond the evaluation of the potential deficiencies identified in the Tier 1 screening. The Tier 2 deficiency-based retrofit requires retrofit of the building such that the deficiencies identified in a Tier 1 screening or a Tier 2 evaluation are mitigated to achieve compliance with the selected Performance Objective(s). The scope of the Tier 2 deficiency-based retrofit need not expand beyond that necessary to modify the building to comply with a Tier 1 screening or a Tier 2 evaluation. Tier 2 evaluation and retrofit of nonstructural components shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 13 of ASCE/SEI 41-17.ASCE/SEI 41-17 Tier 2 Evaluation Process (Figure 5-1 of ASCE 41-17 ) (continues)" data-bookmark= "" class="section-action-wrapper v-card v-sheet theme--light v-card--flat pa-3 my-2 border border-transparent rounded-lg">Figure A-2ASCE/SEI 41-17 Tier 2 Evaluation Process (Figure 5-1 of ASCE 41-17) (continues)
A107.2 General Requirements.A Tier 1 screening (Section A106) shall be completed before performing a Tier 2 deficiency-based evaluation or retrofit. Use of deficiency-based procedures is subject to the limitations of Section 3.3 of ASCE/SEI 41-17.
A107.2.1 Performance Level and Seismic Hazard Level.Performance Level and Seismic Hazard Level for evaluation or retrofit shall be the same as for the Tier 1 screening. If the Tier 2 deficiency-based evaluation demonstrates the adequacy of the structure with respect to all of the ''Noncompliant" or "Unknown" statements in the Tier 1 screening, then the building complies with this standard for the corresponding Performance Objective. If the building is retrofitted in accordance with the deficiency-based retrofit procedure, then the retrofitted building complies with this standard for the corresponding Performance Objectives.
A107.2.2 As-Built Information.In addition to the information required for a Tier 1 screening in Section A106, sufficient information shall be collected for a Tier 2 evaluation or retrofit to complete the required procedures. Destructive examination shall be conducted as required to complete the procedures for buildings being evaluated to the Immediate Occupancy Performance Level. Nondestructive examination of connections and conditions associated with all potential deficiencies shall be performed for all Tier 2 evaluations and retrofits. For the purpose of this section, it is permitted to use the default material properties in Chapters 8 through 12 of ASCE/SEI 41-17 or to use material properties provided in available design drawings.
A107.2.3 Condition Assessment.Where the Tier 2 procedures are used to evaluate deterioration or damage identified in the Tier 1 screening phase or during a subsequent on-site investigation, the extent and the consequence of this deterioration or damage to the seismic-force-resisting system shall be determined. The adequacy of the damaged seismic-force-resisting system shall be evaluated considering the extent of the damage and the effect on the capacity of each damaged element. The effects of the condition of the materials on the seismic performance shall be permitted to be based on the judgment of the evaluator. The findings and documentation of this investigation shall be subject to the approval of AHJ.
A107.2.4 Tier 2 Analysis Methods.Where the use of the Tier 2 procedures requires analysis of the structure or a component of the structure, the analysis shall conform to the requirements of Chapter 7 of ASCE/SEI 41-17, as listed in Section 5.2.4 of ASCE/SEI 41-17.
A107.2.5 Tier 2 Acceptance Criteria.The acceptance criteria for Tier 2 procedures shall be in accordance with Section 7.5.2.2 of ASCE/SEI 41-17. Design actions shall be calculated in accordance with Section 7.5.2.1 of ASCE/SEI 41-17. Component capacities shall be in accordance with Section 7.5.2.2 and Chapters 8 through 12 of ASCE/SEI 41-17.
A107.2.6 Knowledge Factor.The knowledge factor, K, shall be 0.75 unless data collection complies with the requirements for a knowledge factor of 1.0 in accordance with Section 6.2.4 of ASCE/SEI 41-17.
A107.3 Tier 2 Deficiency-Based Evaluation Requirements.The Tier 2 evaluation procedure shall consist of an evaluation in accordance with Sections 5.4 through 5.7 of ASCE/SEI 41-17 for the structural systems or components identified as “Noncompliant” or “Unknown” based on the Tier 1 screening checklists. The analysis shall be as required to determine the demands and capacities of all structural systems, components, and connections associated with the potential deficiency. The reader is referred to Sections 5.4 through 5.7 of ASCE/SEI 41-17 for the procedures for basic configuration of building systems, seismic-force-resisting systems, diaphragms and connections.
A107.4 Tier 2 Deficiency-Based Retrofit Requirements.When a Tier 2 deficiency-based retrofit is to be performed,deficiencies identified by a Tier 1 screening or Tier 2 evaluation shall be mitigated by implementation of retrofit measures in accordance with this standard. The resulting building, including strengthening measures, shall comply with the appropriate Tier 1 screening or with a Tier 2 deficiency-based evaluation for all potential deficiencies that the design professional identifies in the Tier 1 screening. The design professional shall perform Tier 2 analysis and evaluation as necessary to demonstrate the adequacy of all new structural elements, connections, and details added and all existing structural elements, connections, and details modified as part of the rehabilitation. Analysis and acceptance criteria of Section A107.3 shall be used in conjunction with the procedures in Sections 5.4 through 5.8 of ASCE/SEI 41-17. Compliance with Tier 2 retrofit procedures shall not be based on the Quick Check procedures in Section 4.4.3 of ASCE/SEI 41-17.
SECTION A108 TIER 3 SYSTEMATIC EVALUATION AND RETROFIT
A108.1 Scope.This section sets forth the requirements and procedures for performing Tier 3 systematic evaluations and retrofits. These procedures shall be used where systematic procedures are required in accordance with Chapter 3 of ASCE/SEI 41-17 and may be used as a further investigation of buildings where the deficiency-based evaluation procedures have been used. Section 6.2 of ASCE/SEI 41-17 provides data collection requirements that are in addition to those in Section 3.2. Based on the level of data collection performed, a knowledge factor shall be determined in accordance with Section 6.2.4 of ASCE/SEI 41-17. Sections 6.3 and 6.4 of ASCE/SEI 41-17 provide requirements for Tier 3 evaluation and retrofit, respectively.
A108.2 Data Collection Requirements.Investigation of as-built conditions and data collection requirements shall be in accordance with Section 3.2 of ASCE/SEI 41-17 and the requirements of this section. Data shall be obtained from available drawings, specifications, and other documents for the existing construction. Data collected from available documents shall be supplemented and verified by on-site investigations, including nondestructive examination and testing of building materials and components as required in this section. Data on the as-built condition of the structure, components, site, and adjacent buildings shall be collected in sufficient detail to perform the selected analysis procedure. The extent of data collected shall be consistent with minimum, usual, or comprehensive levels of knowledge as specified in Sections 6.2.1, 6.2.2, or 6.2.3 of ASCE/SEI 41-17, respectively. The required level of knowledge shall be determined considering the selected Performance Objective and analysis procedure in accordance with Table 6-1 of ASCE/SEI 41-17. To account for any uncertainty associated with component as-built information, a knowledge factor K shall be used in the capacity evaluation as specified in Section 6.2.4 of ASCE/SEI 41-17.
A108.3 Tier 3 Evaluation Requirements.A Tier 3 evaluation shall consist of an analysis of an existing building performed in accordance with Chapter 7 of ASCE/SEI 41-17 for structural systems and Chapter 13 of ASCE/SEI 41-17 for nonstructural components. The scope of the structural analysis shall be in accordance with Section 7.1 of ASCE/SEI 41-17, based on the analysis requirements in Sections 7.2 and 7.3 and one or more of the analysis procedures specified in Section 7.4, using the acceptance criteria in Section 7.5 (ASCE/SEI 41-17). Foundation elements shall be evaluated in accordance with Chapter 8 (ASCE/SEI 41-17), and structural elements of the building shall be evaluated in accordance with the requirements of Chapters 9 through 12 (ASCE/SEI 41-17). Nonstructural elements shall be evaluated in accordance with Chapter 13 (ASCE/SEI 41-17). Chapters 14 and 15 (ASCE/SEI 41-17) shall be used where seismic isolation and supplemental energy dissipation devices are present in a building being evaluated. A building meeting all provisions of these systematic evaluation procedures for a selected Performance Objective shall be deemed compliant with that Performance Objective.
A108.4 Tier 3 Retrofit Requirements.The Tier 3 retrofit procedure shall consist of an analysis of a building, including retrofit measures, to demonstrate compliance with a selected Performance Objective. Where seismic deficiencies relative to a selected Performance Objective are identified by an evaluation performed in accordance with this standard or by other approved methods, a preliminary retrofit scheme shall be developed using one or more of the retrofit strategies defined in Section 1.5 (ASCE/SEI 41-17).The relevant sections and chapters of ASCE/SEI 41-17 are mentioned as follows.An analysis of the building then shall be performed, including the retrofit measures, based on the procedure specified in section 6.4 (ASCE/SEI 41-17).The scope of the analysis shall be in accordance with Section 7.1, based on the analysis requirements in Sections 7.2 and 7.3 and one or more of the analysis procedures specified in Section 7.4, using the acceptance criteria in Section 7.5.The analysis and acceptance criteria shall be used for both existing elements and new elements introduced as part of the retrofit. Foundation elements shall be evaluated in accordance with Chapter 8, and structural elements of the building shall be evaluated in accordance with the requirements of Chapters 9 through 12.Nonstructural elements shall be evaluated in accordance with Chapter 13. Chapter 14 and 15 shall be used where seismic isolation and supplemental energy dissipation devices are used as part of the retrofit measures. The results of this analysis shall be used to verify that the retrofit design meets the selected Performance Objective.
SECTION A109 PROPOSED REPAIR AND RETROFIT GUIDELINES
A109.1 General.This section presents guidelines for the repair and retrofitting of masonry, steel and concrete structures. These guidelines are adopted from the relevant sections of ASCE/SEI 41-17, therefore all sections referenced in the retrofit guidelines may be read in conjunction with the relevant section of ASCE/SEI 41-17.
A109.2 Proposed Repair and Retrofit Techniques for Masonry Structures.Seismic retrofits are designed to provide the recommended strengthening elements in building to make it seismic resistant against lateral forces of an earthquake. Retrofitting requires consideration of the design and function of the structure, the stresses that the structure may be subject to from particular hazards or hazard scenarios and the practicality and costs of different retrofitting options. The targeted Performance Objective of "Life-Safety" may be achieved by designing retrofit measures by addressing deficiencies identified in the seismic evaluation of Tier-1. Each retrofit measure needs to be evaluated in conjunction with other retrofit measures, and the existing structure as a whole, to ensure that the modified building achieves the target Performance Objective of "Life Safety".The retrofitting scheme for stone masonry structures may have four objectives:a)To increase lateral load resistance of individual walls against out-of-plane forces locallyb)To form a closed box action between the masonry walls to enable them to act as monolithic walls to increase their resistance globallyc)To strength weak areas within the walls such as openings for doors and windowsd)To tie individual and isolated members togetherGenerally, two approaches (local and global retrofit) are followed for seismic retrofitting of the stone masonry buildings. The local retrofit or member level retrofit approach is to upgrade the strength of members by jacketing/confinement by using concrete, steel or fiber reinforced polymers (FRP). This approach is practicable only when a few members of the structure are deficient in their load carrying capacity etc. If, however, almost all structure is weak against seismic or other forces, a global retrofit is considered to be more appropriate. For global retrofitting of the structure two approaches are generally considered; one involving conventional method and other based on some nonconventional procedure. The non-conventional procedure is the base isolation where some sort of dampers/shock absorbers between the foundation and superstructure are provided. Such a technique is not practiced in Pakistan and is very expensive. Therefore, more focus on conventional methods has been made while making an allowance for ease in construction, practicability in execution, labor skills, cost and other relevant factors for acceptable seismic performance. Examples of conventional retrofitting include adding bracing to stiffen walls, reinforcing pillars, adding steel ties between walls and roofs, installing shutters on windows and improving the protection of important facilities and equipment. Generally, the conventional approaches for the stone masonry structure may involve the following:a)Addition of Reinforced Concrete (RC) Horizontal and Vertical Confining Elements (Plinth Level, Sill Level, Lintel Level, Roof Level Bands and Vertical Confining Bands at T and L joints of two or more walls)b)Provision of Reinforced Concrete (RC) Confining Elements around Openings (Doors and Windows etc.)c)Anchorage of Wooden Roof Trusses with walls (to introduce diaphragm support to free-standing masonryagainst lateral forces)d)Provision of Steel Angle Irons sections and Metal Strips with proper anchorage on wallse)Provision of Welded Wire Mesh on both faces of wallsThe provision of confining elements both in horizontal and vertical direction shall lead to introduction of box action in the subject masonry structure. The retrofitting process generally involves the following steps:a)Determine as accurately as possible how a building behaves when shaken by the earthquake, by checkingbuilding condition; materials' quality; and list all damaged components of the building.b)Perform a structural analysis for the building to get an idea of the causes of damage and determine the load paths when shaken by the earthquake.c)Determine damage-causes of components; caused by shear, compression, tension, flexure, etc.d)After identifying the type of damage, repair and restore the components separately, to ensure that the original strength of components can be restored.e)If results of analysis indicate that a building with restored components can withstand maximum expectedearthquake for that area based on Seismic Code, then there is no need to strengthen it.f)However, if a building with restored components was not designed for a lower than maximum expectedearthquake specified by Seismic Code, then the building needs to be strengthened.g)For strengthening, the restored building must be re-analyzed to identify which components must bestrengthened.h)After the strengthening works are completed, the building must be re-analyzed to ensure that the strengthened building is earthquake resistant.i)Besides increasing the strength of structural components, welded mesh, jacketing and external pre-stressing can be used to increase their ductility.j)The design engineer can resolve to any conventional and/or contemporary retrofitting and strengtheningtechniques available to restore the structures to desired serviceability levels.k)Retrofitting of non-structural components should ensure that the building is fully functional and all services are operational. These may include architectural elements (partitions, infill walls, ceiling, windows, doors, etc.), building services (piping, electrical, water tanks, pumps, lighting system, etc.), and building contents (desks, chairs, electronic equipment, cabinets, etc.).l)Retrofitting of non-structural components is also necessary to ensure that the building is fully functional and all services are operational after earthquake i.e. architectural elements: partitions, in-fill walls, ceiling, windows, doors, etc. Building services: piping, electrical, water tanks, pumps, lighting system, etc. Building contents, like desks, chairs, electronic equipment, cabinets, etc.For stone masonry buildings, the following Tier-1 checklists may be selected and filled at site:a)Collapse Prevention Basic Configuration Checklist (ASCE/SEI 41-17, Table 17-2)b)Collapse Prevention Structural Checklists for Building Types Un-Reinforced Masonry (ASCE/SEI 41-17,Table 17-36)c)Non-Structural Checklist (ASCE/SEI 41-17, Table 17-38)
A109.3 Proposed Repair and Retrofit Techniques for Foundations.Foundation retrofit schemes shall be evaluated in conjunction with any retrofit of the superstructure and according to the general principles and requirements of ASCE/SEI 41-17 standard to ensure that the complete retrofit achieves the selected Building Performance Level for the selected Seismic Hazard Level. Where new retrofit components are used in conjunction with existing components, the effects of differential foundation stiffness on the modified structure shall be demonstrated to meet the acceptance criteria. If existing loads are not redistributed to all the components of the foundation by shoring and/or jacking, the effects of differential strengths and stiffnesses among individual foundation components shall be included in the analysis of the foundation. The effects of a retrofit on stiffness, strength, and deformability shall be taken into account in an analytical model of the building. The compatibility of new and existing components shall be checked at displacements consistent with the Performance Level chosen.
A109.4 Proposed Repair and Retrofit Techniques for Steel and Iron Structures.For retrofitting of various structures, the ASCE/SEI 41-17 may be taken as base guideline as described in following discussion. Therefore, relevant Sections for the retrofitting are presented below.
A109.4.1 Retrofit Measures for Structural Steel.Seismic retrofit measures shall meet the requirements of this section and other provisions of ASCE/SEI 41-17 standard. If replacement of the steel element is selected, the new element shall be designed in accordance with standard and detailed and constructed in accordance with an approved building code.
A109.4.2 Retrofit Measures for Cold-Formed Steel Light-Frame Construction.If portions of a CFS light-frame building structure are deficient for the selected Performance Objective, the structure shall be retrofitted, reinforced, or replaced. If replacement of the element is selected or if new elements are added, the new elements shall satisfy the acceptance criteria of ASCE/SEI 41-17 standard and shall be detailed and constructed in accordance with an approved building code. If reinforcement of the existing framing system is selected, the following factors shall be considered:i.Degree of degradation in the component from such mechanisms as corrosion, high static or dynamicloading, or other effects;ii.Level of steady-state stress in the components to be reinforced and the potential to temporarily remove this stress, if appropriate;iii.Elastic and inelastic properties of existing components; strain compatibility with any new reinforcement materials shall be provided;iv.Ductility, durability, and suitability of existing connectors between components, and access forreinforcement or modification;v.Efforts necessary to achieve appropriate fit-up for reinforcing components and connections;vi.Load path and deformation of the components at end connections; andvii.Presence of components manufactured with archaic materials, which can contain material discontinuities,to be examined during the retrofit design to ensure that the selected reinforcement is feasible.
A109.4.3 Retrofit Measures for Steel Moment Frames.Seismic retrofit measures for Fully Restrained (FR) moment frames shall meet the requirements of Section 9.3.5 and other provisions of ASCE/SEI 41-17 standard. Seismic retrofit measures for Partially Restrained (PR) moment frames shall meet the requirements of Section 9.3.5 and other provisions of ASCE/SEI 41-17 standard.
A109.4.4 Retrofit Measures for Steel Braced Frames.Seismic retrofit measures for Concentrically Braced Frames - CBFs shall meet the requirements in Section 9.3.5 and other provisions of ASCE/SEI 41-17 standard. Seismic retrofit measures for Eccentrically Braced Frames - EBFs shall meet the requirements of Section 9.3.5 and other provisions of standard. Seismic retrofit measures for Buckling-Restrained Braced Frames - BRBFs shall meet the requirements of this section, Section 9.3.5, and other provisions of ASCE/SEI 41-17 standard. In the case where additional seismic-force-resisting systems are added in series with the BRBF system to reduce the demands on the BRBF components, the relative stiffness for each component shall be incorporated into the analysis. If the BRB element not meeting the acceptance criteria is replaced with a larger capacity BRB element, the connections, and adjoining members (beams and columns) shall be evaluated for the new expected brace strengths, as required in Section 9.5.4.3. If a BRBF system is used as the retrofit system, the design shall be based on the procedures in Section 9.5.4 and AISC 341, taking ϕ = 1.0.
A109.4.5 Retrofit Measures for Steel Plate Shear Walls.Seismic retrofit measures for steel plate shear walls shall meet the requirements of Section 9.3.5 and other provisions of ASCE 41-17 standard.
A109.4.6 Retrofit Measures for Diaphragms and Steel Pile Foundations.Seismic retrofit measures for all types of metal Diaphragms and Steel Pile Foundations in Section 9.10 and 9.11 shall meet the requirements of Section 9.3.5 and other provisions of ASCE/SEI 41-17 standard.
A109.5 Repair and Retrofit Techniques for Reinforced Concrete Structures.Seismic retrofit measures for concrete buildings shall meet the requirements of this section and other provisions of ASCE/SEI 41-17 standard. Retrofit measures shall include replacement or retrofit of the component or modification of the structure so that the component is no longer deficient for the selected Performance Objective. If component replacement is selected, the new component shall be designed in accordance with ASCE/SEI 41-17 standard and detailed and constructed in compliance with the applicable building code. Retrofit measures shall be evaluated to ensure that the completed retrofit achieves the selected Performance Objective. The effects of retrofit on stiffness, strength, and deformability shall be taken into account in an analytical model of the rehabilitated structure. The compatibility of new and existing components shall be checked at displacements consistent with the selected Performance Level. Connections required between existing and new components shall satisfy the requirements of Section 10.3.6 (ASCE/SEI 41-17) and other requirements of ASCE/SEI 41-17 standard.
A109.5.1 Reinforced Concrete Beam-Column Moment Frames.Seismic retrofit measures for reinforced concrete beam-column moment frames shall meet the requirements of Section 10.3.7 and other provisions of ASCE/SEI 41-17 standard.
A109.5.2 Post-tensioned Concrete Beam-Column Moment Frames.Seismic retrofit measures for post-tensioned concrete beam-column moment frames shall meet the requirements of Section 10.3.7 and other provisions of ASCE/SEI 41-17 standard.
A109.5.3 Slab-Column Moment Frames.Seismic retrofit measures for slab-column moment frames shall meet the requirements of Section 10.3.7 and other provisions of ASCE/SEI 41-17 standard.
A109.5.4 Concrete Frames with Infills.Concrete Frames with Masonry and Concrete Infills in Sections 10.6.2 and 10.6.3 shall meet the requirements of Section 10.3.7 and other provisions of ASCE/SEI 41-17 standard.
A109.5.5 Concrete Structural Walls.Seismic retrofit measures for reinforced concrete structural walls, wall segments, coupling beams, and columns supporting discontinuous structural walls shall meet the requirements of Section 10.3.7 and other provisions of ASCE/SEI 41-17 standard.
A109.5.6 Concrete Braced Frames.Seismic retrofit measures for concrete-braced frames and its components shall meet the requirements of Section 10.3.7 and other provisions of ASCE/SEI 41-17 standard.
A109.5.7 Cast-in-Place Concrete Diaphragms.Seismic retrofit measures for cast-in-place concrete diaphragms shall meet the requirements of Section 10.3.7 and other provisions of ASCE/SEI 41-17 standard.
A109.5.8 Concrete Foundations.Seismic retrofit measures for concrete foundations shall meet the requirements of Section 10.3.7 and other provisions of ASCE/SEI 41-17 standard.
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
•
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.