======================================================================
Chapter 2 Definitions
======================================================================

Chapter 1 Scope And Administration - Building Code of Pakistan
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2021
Building Code of Pakistan
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2021 Building Code of Pakistan 2024 International Energy Conservation Code and ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1-2022 (IECC) 2024 International Green Construction Code Code (IgCC) 2024 International Zoning Code (IZC) 2024 International Wildland-Urban Interface Code (IWUIC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
Pakistan
/
2021 Building Code of Pakistan
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
2021 Building Code of Pakistan
favorite_border
2021 IBC
Amended
Version:
Sep 2021
Contents
Notes
Overview
Copyright
Preface
Acknowledgements
Source Documents
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Part 1 Scope and Application
Part 2 Administration and Enforcement
Chapter 2 Definitions
Chapter 3 Occupancy Classification and Use
Chapter 4 Special Detailed Requirements Based on Occupancy and Use
Chapter 5 General Building Heights and Areas
Chapter 6 Types of Construction
Chapter 7 Reserved
Chapter 8 Interior Finishes
Chapter 9 Reserved
Chapter 10 Reserved
Chapter 11 Accessibility
Chapter 12 Interior Environment
Chapter 13 Reserved
Chapter 14 Exterior Walls
Chapter 15 Roof Assemblies and Rooftop Structures
Chapter 16 Structural Design
Chapter 17 Special Inspections and Tests
Chapter 18 Soils and Foundations
Chapter 19 Concrete
Chapter 20 Aluminum
Chapter 21 Masonry
Chapter 22 Steel
Chapter 23 Wood
Chapter 24 Glass and Glazing
Chapter 25 Gypsum Board, Gypsum Panel Products and Plaster
Chapter 26 Plastic
Chapter 27 Electrical
Chapter 28 Mechanical Systems
Chapter 29 Plumbing Systems
Chapter 30 Elevators and Conveying Systems
Chapter 31 Special Construction
Chapter 32 Encroachments Into the Public Right-Of-Way
Chapter 33 Safeguards During Construction
Chapter 34 Referenced Standards
Appendix A Guidelines for Seismic Evaluation and Retrofit of Existing Buildings
Appendix B Flood-Resistant Construction
Appendix C Mapped Earthquake Acceleration Parameters
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
CHAPTER 1
SCOPE AND ADMINISTRATIONUser notes:About this chapter: Chapter 1 establishes the limits of applicability of the code and describes how the code is to be applied and enforced. Chapter 1 is in two parts: Part 1—Scope and Application (Sections 101–102) and Part 2—Administration and Enforcement (Sections 103–116). Section 101 identifies which buildings and structures come under its purview and references other I-Codes as applicable. Standards and codes are scoped to the extent referenced (see Section 102.4).This code is intended to be adopted as a legally enforceable document and it cannot be effective without adequate provisions for its administration and enforcement. The provisions of Chapter 1 establish the authority and duties of the code official appointed by the authority having jurisdiction and also establish the rights and privileges of the design professional, contractor and property owner. Chapter 1 is largely concerned with maintaining “due process of law” in enforcing the building performance criteria contained in the body of the code.
PART1—SCOPE AND APPLICATION
SECTION 101 SCOPE AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
101.1 Title.These regulations shall be known as the Building Code of Pakistan, hereinafter referred to as ''this code."
101.2 Scope.The provisions of this code shall apply to the construction, alteration, relocation, enlargement, replacement, repair, equipment, use and occupancy, location, maintenance, removal and demolition of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected or attached to such buildings or structures.Exception: Detached one- and two-family dwellings and townhouses not more than three stories above grade plane in height with a separate means of egress, and their accessory structures not more than three stories above grade plane in height, shall comply with this code or the International Residential Code (IRC).
101.2.1 Appendices.Provisions in the appendices shall not apply unless specifically adopted.
101.3 Purpose.The purpose of this code is to establish the minimum requirements to provide a reasonable level of safety, health and general welfare through structural strength, means of egress, stability, sanitation, light and ventilation, energy conservation, and for providing a reasonable level of life safety and property protection from the hazards of fire, explosion or dangerous conditions, and to provide a reasonable level of safety to fire fighters and emergency responders during emergency operations.
101.4 Referenced codes. The other codes specified in Sections 101.4.1 through 101.4.7 and referenced elsewhere in this code shall be considered to be part of the requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each such reference.
101.4.1 Gas.Unless not required by the Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ), the provisions of the International Fuel Gas Code (IFGC) shall apply to the installation of gas piping from the point of delivery, gas appliances and related accessories as covered in this code. These requirements apply to gas piping systems extending from the point of delivery to the inlet connections of appliances and the installation and operation of residential and commercial gas appliances and related accessories.
101.4.2 Mechanical.Unless not required by AHJ, the provisions of the International Mechanical Code (IMC) shall apply to the installation, alterations, repairs and replacement of mechanical systems, including equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and appurtenances, including ventilating, heating, cooling, air-conditioning and refrigeration systems, incinerators and other energy-related systems.
101.4.3 Plumbing.Unless not required by AHJ, the provisions of the International Plumbing Code (IPC) shall apply to the installation, alteration, repair and replacement of plumbing systems, including equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and appurtenances, and where connected to a water or sewage system and all aspects of a medical gas system. The provisions of the International Private Sewage Disposal Code (IPSDC) shall apply to private sewage disposal systems.
101.4.4 Property maintenance.Unless not required by AHJ, the provisions of the International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC) shall apply to existing structures and premises; equipment and facilities; light, ventilation, space heating, sanitation, life and fire safety hazards; responsibilities of owners, operators and occupants; and occupancy of existing premises and structures.
101.4.5 Fire prevention.Unless not required by AHJ, the provisions of the Building Code of Pakistan- Fire Safety Provisions 2016 shall apply to matters affecting or relating to structures, processes and premises from the hazard of fire and explosion arising from the storage, handling or use of structures, materials or devices; from conditions hazardous to life, property or public welfare in the occupancy of structures or premises; and from the construction, extension, repair, alteration or removal of fire suppression, automatic sprinkler systems and alarm systems or fire hazards in the structure or on the premises from occupancy or operation.
101.4.6 Energy.Unless not required by AHJ, the provisions of the Building Code of Pakistan- Energy Provisions 2011 shall apply to all matters governing the design and construction of buildings for energy efficiency.
101.4.7 Existing buildings.Unless not required by AHJ, the provisions of the International Existing Building Code (IEBC) shall apply to matters governing the repair, alteration, change of occupancy, addition to and relocation of existing buildings.
SECTION 102 APPLICABILITY
102.1 General.Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall be applicable. Where, in any specific case, different sections of this code specify different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most restrictive shall govern.
102.2 Other laws.The provisions of this code shall not be deemed to nullify any provisions of local, - provincial or federal law.
102.3 Application of references.References to chapter or section numbers, or to provisions not specifically identified by number, shall be construed to refer to such chapter, section or provision of this code.
102.4 Referenced codes and standards.The codes and standards referenced in this code shall be considered to be part of the requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each such reference and as further regulated in Sections 102.4.1 and 102.4.2.
102.4.1 Conflicts.Where conflicts occur between provisions of this code and referenced codes and standards, the provisions of this code shall apply.
102.4.2 Provisions in referenced codes and standards.Where the extent of the reference to a referenced code or standard includes subject matter that is within the scope of this code or the International Codes specified in Section 101.4, the provisions of this code or the International Codes specified in Section 101.4, as applicable, shall take precedence over the provisions in the referenced code or standard.
102.5 Partial invalidity.In the event that any part or provision of this code is held to be illegal or void, this shall not have the effect of making void or illegal any of the other parts or provisions.
102.6 Existing structures.Unless not required by AHJ, the legal occupancy of any structure existing on the date of adoption of this code shall be permitted to continue without change, except as otherwise specifically provided in this code, the International Existing Building Code (IEBC), the International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC) or the Building Code of Pakistan- Fire Safety Provisions 2016.
102.6.1 Buildings not previously occupied.Unless not required by AHJ, a building or portion of a building that has not been previously occupied or used for its intended purpose in accordance with the laws in existence at the time of its completion shall comply with the provisions of this code or the International Residential Code, (IRC) as applicable, for new construction or with any current permit for such occupancy.
102.6.2 Buildings previously occupied.Unless not required by AHJ, the legal occupancy of any building existing on the date of adoption of this code shall be permitted to continue without change, except as otherwise specifically provided in this code, the Building Code of Pakistan- Fire Safety Provisions 2016 or International Property Maintenance Code, (IPMC) or as is deemed necessary by AHJ, for the general safety and welfare of the occupants and the public.
PART2—ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION 103 CODE COMPLIANCE AGENCY
103.1 General.The provisions of this code shall be implemented, administered and enforced by AHJ using their organizational procedures.
103.2 Appointment.This section intentionally left blank.
103.3 Deputies.This section intentionally left blank.
103.4 Minimum Qualifications to Enforce these Provisions.AHJ shall establish minimum qualifications for all persons assigned the responsibility of enforcing these Provisions.
103.5 Enforcement Assistance. Police and other enforcement agencies shall have authority to render necessary assistance in the enforcement of these Provisions when requested to do so by AHJ.
SECTION 104 DUTIES AND POWERS OF AHJ
104.1 General.These Provisions shall apply without restriction, unless specifically exempted. AHJ shall have the authority to render interpretations of this code and to adopt policies and procedures in order to clarify the application of its provisions with the help of experts (Registered design professionals). Such interpretations, policies and procedures shall be in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code and shall be available to the public during normal business hours. Such policies and procedures shall not have the effect of waiving requirements specifically provided for in this code.
104.2 Applications and permits.AHJ shall establish procedures to receive applications, review construction documents and issue permits for the erection, and alteration, demolition and moving of buildings and structures, inspect the premises for which such permits have been issued and enforce compliance with the provisions of this code.
104.2.1 Determination of substantially improved or substantially damaged existing buildings and structures in flood hazard areas.For applications for reconstruction, rehabilitation, repair, alteration, addition or other improvement of existing buildings or structures located in flood hazard areas, AHJ shall determine if the proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage. Where AHJ determines that the proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage, and where required by this code, AHJ shall require the building to meet the requirements of Section 1612 or Section R322 of the International Residential Code (IRC), as applicable.
104.3 Notices and orders.AHJ shall issue necessary notices or orders to ensure compliance with this code.
104.4 Inspections.AHJ shall make the required inspections. AHJ is authorized to engage such expert opinion (by a Registered design professional) as deemed necessary to report on unusual technical issues that arise, subject to the approval of the appointing authority.
104.5 Delegation of Authority. AHJ shall be permitted to delegate to other qualified individuals such powers as necessary for the administration and enforcement of these Provisions.
104.6 Right of entry.Where it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of this code, or where AHJ has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in a structure or on a premises a condition that is contrary to or in violation of this code that makes the structure or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, AHJ is authorized to enter the structure or premises at reasonable times to inspect or to perform the duties imposed by this code, provided that if such structure or premises be occupied that credentials be presented to the occupant and entry requested. If such structure or premises is unoccupied, AHJ shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having charge or control of the structure or premises and request entry. If entry is refused, AHJ shall have recourse to the remedies provided by law to secure entry.
104.7 Department records.AHJ shall keep official records of applications received, permits and certificates issued, fees collected, reports of inspections, and notices and orders issued. Such records shall be retained in the official records for the period required for retention of public records.
104.8 Liability.AHJ, member of the committee of appeals or employee charged with the enforcement of this code, while acting for the jurisdiction in good faith and without malice in the discharge of the duties required by this code or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not thereby be civilly or criminally rendered liable personally and is hereby relieved from personal liability for any damage accruing to persons or property as a result of any act or by reason of an act or omission in the discharge of official duties.
104.8.1 Legal defense.Any suit or criminal complaint instituted against an officer or employee because of an act performed by that officer or employee in the lawful discharge of duties and under the provisions of this code shall be defended by legal representatives of the jurisdiction until the final termination of the proceedings. AHJ shall not be liable for cost in any action, suit or proceeding that is instituted in pursuance of the provisions of this code.
104.9 Approved materials and equipment.Materials, equipment and devices approved by AHJ shall be constructed and installed in accordance with such approval.
104.9.1 Used materials and equipment.Materials that are reused shall comply with the requirements of this code for new materials. Used equipment and devices shall not be reused unless approved by AHJ.
104.10 Modifications.Where there are practical difficulties involved in carrying out the provisions of this code, AHJ shall seek expert opinion (by a Registered design professional) to grant modifications for individual cases, upon application of the owner or the owner’s authorized agent, provided that AHJ shall first find that special individual reason makes the strict letter of this code impractical, the modification is in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code and that such modification does not lessen health, accessibility, life and fire safety or structural requirements. The details of action granting modifications shall be recorded and entered in the files of AHJ.
104.10.1 Flood hazard areas.AHJ shall not grant modifications to any provision required in flood hazard areas as established by Section 1612.3 unless a determination has been made that:1.A showing of good and sufficient cause that the unique characteristics of the size, configuration or topography of the site render the elevation standards of Section 1612 inappropriate.2.A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship by rendering the lot undevelopable.3.A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.4.A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief, considering the flood hazard.5.Submission to the applicant of written notice specifying the difference between the design flood elevation and the elevation to which the building is to be built, stating that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced floor elevation, and stating that construction below the design flood elevation increases risks to life and property.
104.11 Alternative materials, design and methods of construction and equipment.The provisions of this code are not intended to prevent the installation of any material or to prohibit any design or method of construction not specifically prescribed by this code, provided that any such alternative has been approved. An alternative material, design or method of construction shall be approved where AHJ takes help from experts (Registered design professionals) to review and confirm that the proposed alternative meets all of the following:1. The alternative material, design or method of construction is satisfactory and complies with the intent of theprovisions of this code,2. The material, method or work offered is, for the purpose intended, not less than the equivalent of that prescribed in this code as it pertains to the following:2.1.Quality.2.2.Strength.2.3.Effectiveness.2.4.Fire resistance.2.5.Durability.2.6.Safety.Where the alternative material, design or method of construction is not approved, AHJ shall respond in writing, stating the reasons why the alternative was not approved.
104.11.1 Research reports.Supporting data, where necessary to assist in the approval of materials or assemblies not specifically provided for in this code, shall consist of valid research reports from approved sources.
104.11.2 Tests.Whenever there is insufficient evidence of compliance with the provisions of this code, or evidence that a material or method does not conform to the requirements of this code, or in order to substantiate claims for alternative materials or methods, AHJ shall have the authority to require tests as evidence of compliance to be made without expense to the jurisdiction. Test methods shall be as specified in this code or by other recognized test standards. In the absence of recognized and accepted test methods, AHJ shall approve the testing procedures with the help of experts (Registered design professionals). Tests shall be performed by an approved agency. Reports of such tests shall be retained by AHJ for the period required for retention of public records.
SECTION 105 PERMITS
105.1 Required.Any owner or owner’s authorized agent who intends to construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish or change the occupancy of a building or structure, or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert or replace any electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, the installation of which is regulated by this code, or to cause any such work to be performed, shall first make application to AHJ and obtain the required permit.
105.2 Work exempt from permit.Exemptions from permit requirements of this code shall not be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in violation of the provisions of this code or any other laws or ordinances of this jurisdiction. Permits shall not be required for the following:Building:1.One-story detached accessory structures used as tool and storage sheds, playhouses and similar uses, provided that the floor area is not greater than 120 square feet (11 m2).2.Fences not over 7 feet (2134 mm) high.3.Oil derricks.4.Retaining walls that are not over 4 feet (1219 mm) in height measured from the bottom of the footing to the top of the wall, unless supporting a surcharge or impounding Class I, II or IIIA liquids.5.Water tanks supported directly on grade if the capacity is not greater than 5,000 gallons (18 925 L) and the ratio of height to diameter or width is not greater than 2:1.6.Sidewalks and driveways not more than 30 inches (762 mm) above adjacent grade, and not over any basement or story below and are not part of an accessible route.7.Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, counter tops and similar finish work.8.Temporary motion picture, television and theater stage sets and scenery.9.Prefabricated swimming pools accessory to a Group R-3 occupancy that are less than 24 inches (610 mm) deep, are not greater than 5,000 gallons (18 925 L) and are installed entirely above ground.10.Shade cloth structures constructed for nursery or agricultural purposes, not including service systems.11.Swings and other playground equipment accessory to detached one- and two-family dwellings.12.Window awnings in Group R-3 and U occupancies, supported by an exterior wall that do notproject more than 54 inches (1372 mm) from the exterior wall and do not require additional support.13.Nonfixed and movable fixtures, cases, racks, counters and partitions not over 5 feet 9 inches (1753 mm) in height.Electrical:1.Repairs and maintenance: Minor repair work, including the replacement of lamps or the connection of approved portable electrical equipment to approved permanently installed receptacles.2.Radio and television transmitting stations: The provisions of this code shall not apply to electrical equipment used for radio and television transmissions, but do apply to equipment and wiring for a power supply and the installations of towers and antennas.3.Temporary testing systems: A permit shall not be required for the installation of any temporary system required for the testing or servicing of electrical equipment or apparatus.Gas:1.Portable heating appliance.2.Replacement of any minor part that does not alter approval of equipment or make such equipment unsafe.Mechanical:1.Portable heating appliance.2.Portable ventilation equipment.3.Portable cooling unit.4.Steam, hot or chilled water piping within any heating or cooling equipment regulated by this code.5.Replacement of any part that does not alter its approval or make it unsafe.6.Portable evaporative cooler.7.Self-contained refrigeration system containing 10 pounds (4.54 kg) or less of refrigerant and actuated by motors of 1 horsepower (0.75 kW) or less.Plumbing:1.The stopping of leaks in drains, water, soil, waste or vent pipe, provided, however, that if any concealed trap, drain pipe, water, soil, waste or vent pipe becomes defective and it becomes necessary to remove and replace the same with new material, such work shall be considered as new work and a permit shall be obtained and inspection made as provided in this code.2.The clearing of stoppages or the repairing of leaks in pipes, valves or fixtures and the removal and reinstallation of water closets, provided that such repairs do not involve or require the replacement or rearrangement of valves, pipes or fixtures.
105.2.1 Emergency repairs.Where equipment replacements and repairs must be performed in an emergency situation, the permit application shall be submitted within the next working business day to AHJ.
105.2.2 Public service agencies.A permit shall not be required for the installation, alteration or repair of generation, transmission, distribution or metering or other related equipment that is under the ownership and control of public service agencies by established right.
105.3 Application for permit.AHJ shall establish procedure to apply for permit.
105.3.1 Action on application.AHJ shall examine or cause to be examined applications for permits and amendments thereto within a reasonable time after filing. If the application or the construction documents do not conform to the requirements of pertinent laws, AHJ shall reject such application in writing, stating the reasons therefor. If AHJ is satisfied that the proposed work conforms to the requirements of this code and laws and ordinances applicable thereto, AHJ shall issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable.
105.3.2 Time limitation of application.AHJ shall determine and notify time limits for abandoning of application for a permit for any proposed work. AHJ is authorized to grant one or more extensions of time for additional periods not exceeding 90 days each. The extension shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause demonstrated.
105.4 Validity of permit.The issuance or granting of a permit shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of this code or of any other ordinance of the jurisdiction. Permits presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this code or other ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid. The issuance of a permit based on construction documents and other data shall not prevent AHJ from requiring the correction of errors in the construction documents and other data. AHJ is authorized to prevent occupancy or use of a structure where in violation of this code or of any other ordinances of this jurisdiction.
105.5 Expiration.Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the work on the site authorized by such permit is commenced within 180 days after its issuance, or if the work authorized on the site by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of 180 days after the time the work is commenced. AHJ is authorized to grant, in writing, one or more extensions of time, for periods not more than 180 days each. The extension shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause demonstrated.
105.6 Suspension or revocation.AHJ is authorized to suspend or revoke a permit issued under the provisions of this code wherever the permit is issued in error or on the basis of incorrect, inaccurate or incomplete information, or in violation of any ordinance or regulation or any of the provisions of this code.
105.7 Placement of permit.The building permit or copy shall be kept on the site of the work until the completion ofthe project.
SECTION 106 FLOOR AND ROOF DESIGN LOADS
106.1 Live loads posted.In commercial or industrial buildings, for each floor or portion thereof designed for live loads exceeding 50 psf (2.40 kN/m2), such design live loads shall be conspicuously posted by the owner or the owner’s authorized agent in that part of each story in which they apply, using durable signs. It shall be unlawful to remove or deface such notices.
106.2 Issuance of certificate of occupancy.A certificate of occupancy required by Section 111 shall not be issued until the floor load signs, required by Section 106.1, have been installed.
106.3 Restrictions on loading.It shall be unlawful to place, or cause or permit to be placed, on any floor or roof of a building, structure or portion thereof, a load greater than is permitted by this code.
SECTION 107 CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS
107.1 General.AHJ shall establish and notify the requirements for submittal documents including construction documents, geotechnical report and other data with each permit application. The construction documents shall be prepared by a registered design professional where required by the statutes of the jurisdiction in which the project is to be constructed. Where special conditions exist, AHJ is authorized to require additional construction documents to be prepared by a registered design professional.
107.2 Construction documents.Construction documents shall be in accordance with Sections 107.2.1 through 107.2.8.
107.2.1 Information on construction documents.Construction documents shall be dimensioned and drawn on suitable material. Electronic media documents are permitted to be submitted where approved by AHJ. Construction documents shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the location, nature and extent of the work proposed and show in detail that it will conform to the provisions of this code and relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations, as determined by AHJ.
107.2.2 Fire protection system shop drawings.Shop drawings for the fire protection systems shall be submitted to indicate conformance to this code and the construction documents and shall be approved prior to the start of system installation. Shop drawings shall contain all information as required by the referenced installation standards Building Code of Pakistan- Fire Safety Provisions 2016.
107.2.3 Means of egress.The construction documents shall show in sufficient detail the location, construction, size and character of all portions of the means of egress including the path of the exit discharge to the public way in compliance with the provisions of this code. In other than occupancies in Groups R-2, R-3, and I-1, the construction documents shall designate the number of occupants to be accommodated on every floor, and in all rooms and spaces.
107.2.4 Exterior wall envelope.Construction documents for all buildings shall describe the exterior wall envelope in sufficient detail to determine compliance with this code. The construction documents shall provide details of the exterior wall envelope as required, including flashing, intersections with dissimilar materials, corners, end details, control joints, intersections at roof, eaves or parapets, means of drainage, water-resistive barrier and details around openings.The construction documents shall include manufacturer’s installation instructions that provide supporting documentation that the proposed penetration and opening details described in the construction documents maintain the weather resistance of the exterior wall envelope. The supporting documentation shall fully describe the exterior wall system that was tested, where applicable, as well as the test procedure used.
107.2.5 Exterior balconies and elevated walking surfaces.Where balconies or other elevated walking surfaces have weather-exposed surfaces, and the structural framing is protected by an impervious moisture barrier, the construction documents shall include details for all elements of the impervious moisture barrier system. The construction documents shall include manufacturer’s installation instructions.
107.2.6 Site plan.The construction documents submitted with the application for permit shall be accompanied by a site plan showing to scale the size and location of new construction and existing structures on the site, distances from lot lines, the established street grades and the proposed finished grades and, as applicable, flood hazard areas, floodways, and design flood elevations; and it shall be drawn in accordance with an accurate boundary line survey. In the case of demolition, the site plan shall show construction to be demolished and the location and size of existing structures and construction that are to remain on the site or plot. AHJ is authorized to waive or modify the requirement for a site plan where the application for permit is for alteration or repair or where otherwise warranted.
107.2.6.1 Design flood elevations.Where design flood elevations are not specified, they shall be established in accordance with Section 1612.3.1.
107.2.7 Structural information.The construction documents shall provide the information specified in Section 1603.
107.2.8 Relocatable buildings.Construction documents for relocatable buildings shall comply with Section 3112.
107.3 Examination of documents.AHJ shall examine or cause to be examined the accompanying submittal documents and shall ascertain by such examinations whether the construction indicated and described is in accordance with the requirements of this code and other pertinent laws or ordinances.
107.3.1 Approval of construction documents.When AHJ issues a permit, the construction documents shall be approved, in writing or by stamp, as “Reviewed for Code Compliance.” One set of construction documents so reviewed shall be retained by AHJ. The other set shall be returned to the applicant, shall be kept at the site of work and shall be open to inspection by AHJ or a duly authorized representative.
107.3.2 Previous approvals.This code shall not require changes in the construction documents, construction or designated occupancy of a structure for which a lawful permit has been heretofore issued or otherwise lawfully authorized, and the construction of which has been pursued in good faith within 180 days after the effective date of this code and has not been abandoned.
107.3.3 Phased approval.This section intentionally left blank.
107.3.4 Design professional in responsible charge.Where it is required that documents be prepared by a registered design professional, AHJ shall be authorized to require the owner or the owner’s authorized agent to engage and designate on the building permit application a registered design professional who shall act as the registered design professional in responsible charge. If the circumstances require, the owner or the owner’s authorized agent shall designate a substitute registered design professional in responsible charge who shall perform the duties required of the original registered design professional in responsible charge. AHJ shall be notified in writing by the owner or the owner’s authorized agent if the registered design professional in responsible charge is changed or is unable to continue to perform the duties.The registered design professional in responsible charge shall be responsible for reviewing and coordinating submittal documents prepared by others for compatibility with the design of the building.
107.3.4.1 Deferred submittals.This section intentionally left blank.
107.4 Amended construction documents.Work shall be installed in accordance with the approved construction documents, and any changes made during construction that are not in compliance with the approved construction documents shall be resubmitted for approval as an amended set of construction documents.
107.5 Retention of construction documents.One set of approved construction documents shall be retained by AHJ for a period of not less than 180 days from date of completion of the permitted work, or as required by state or local laws.
SECTION 108 TEMPORARY STRUCTURES AND USES
108.1 General.AHJ is authorized to issue a permit for temporary structures and temporary uses. Such permits shall be limited as to time of service, but shall not be permitted for more than 180 days. AHJ is authorized to grant extensions for demonstrated cause.
108.2 Conformance.Temporary structures and uses shall comply with the requirements in Section 3103.
108.3 Temporary power.AHJ is authorized to give permission to temporarily supply and use power in part of an electric installation before such installation has been fully completed and the final certificate of completion has been issued. Unless otherwise specified, the part covered by the temporary certificate shall comply with the requirements specified for temporary lighting, heat or power in NFPA 70.
108.4 Termination of approval.AHJ is authorized to terminate such permit for a temporary structure or use and to order the temporary structure or use to be discontinued.
SECTION 109 FEES
109.1 Payment of fees.A permit shall not be valid until the fees prescribed by law have been paid, nor shall an amendment to a permit be released until the additional fee, if any, has been paid.
109.2 Schedule of permit fees.Where a permit is required, a fee for each permit shall be paid as required, in accordance with the schedule as established by AHJ.
109.3 Permit valuations.This section intentionally left blank.
109.4 Work commencing before permit issuance.Any person who commences any work before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to a fee established by AHJ that shall be in addition to the required permit fees.
109.5 Related fees.The payment of the fee for the construction, alteration, removal or demolition for work done in connection to or concurrently with the work authorized by a building permit shall not relieve the applicant or holder of the permit from the payment of other fees that are prescribed by law.
109.6 Refunds.AHJ is authorized to establish a refund policy.
SECTION 110 INSPECTIONS
110.1 General.Construction or work for which a permit is required shall be subject to inspection by AHJ and such construction or work shall remain visible and able to be accessed for inspection purposes until approved. Approval as a result of an inspection shall not be construed to be an approval of a violation of the provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction. Inspections presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid. It shall be the duty of the owner or the owner’s authorized agent to cause the work to remain visible and able to be accessed for inspection purposes. AHJ shall be liable for expense entailed in the removal or replacement of any material required to allow inspection.
110.2 Preliminary inspection.Before issuing a permit, AHJ is authorized to examine or cause to be examined buildings, structures and sites for which an application has been filed.
110.3 Required inspections.AHJ, upon notification, shall make the inspections set forth in Sections 110.3.1 through 110.3.12.
110.3.1 Footing and foundation inspection.Footing and foundation inspections shall be made after excavations for footings are complete and any required reinforcing steel is in place. For concrete foundations, any required forms shall be in place prior to inspection. Materials for the foundation shall be on the job, except where concrete is ready mixed in accordance with ASTM C94, the concrete need not be on the job.
110.3.2 Concrete slab and under-floor inspection.Concrete slab and under-floor inspections shall be made after in-slab or under-floor reinforcing steel and building service equipment, conduit, piping accessories and other ancillary equipment items are in place, but before any concrete is placed or floor sheathing installed, including the subfloor.
110.3.3 Lowest floor elevation.In flood hazard areas, upon placement of the lowest floor, including the basement, and prior to further vertical construction, the elevation certification required in Section 1612.4 or the International Residential Code (IRC), as applicable, shall be submitted to AHJ.
110.3.4 Frame inspection.Framing inspections shall be made after the roof deck or sheathing, all framing, fire-blocking and bracing are in place and pipes, chimneys and vents to be concealed are complete and the rough electrical, plumbing, heating wires, pipes and ducts are approved.
110.3.5 Types IV-A, IV-B and IV-C connection protection inspection.In buildings of Types IV-A, IV-B and IV-C construction, where connection fire-resistance ratings are provided by wood cover calculated to meet the requirements of Section 2304.10.1, inspection of the wood cover shall be made after the cover is installed, but before any other coverings or finishes are installed.
110.3.6 Lath, gypsum board and gypsum panel product inspection.Lath, gypsum board and gypsum panel product inspections shall be made after lathing, gypsum board and gypsum panel products, interior and exterior, are in place, but before any plastering is applied or gypsum board and gypsum panel product joints and fasteners are taped and finished.Exception: Gypsum board and gypsum panel products that are not part of a fire-resistance-rated assembly or a shear assembly.
110.3.7 Weather-exposed balcony and walking surface waterproofing.Where balconies or other elevated walking surfaces have weather-exposed surfaces, and the structural framing is protected by an impervious moisture barrier, all elements of the impervious moisture barrier system shall not be concealed until inspected and approved.Exception: Where special inspections are provided inaccordance with Section 1705.1.1, Item 3.
110.3.8 Fire- and smoke-resistant penetrations.Protection of joints and penetrations in fire-resistance-rated assemblies, smoke barriers and smoke partitions shall not be concealed from view until inspected and approved.
110.3.9 Energy efficiency inspections.Inspections shall be made to determine compliance with Chapter 13 and shall include, but not be limited to, inspections for: envelope insulation R- and U-values, fenestration U-value, duct system R-value, and HVAC and water-heating equipment efficiency.
110.3.10 Other inspections.In addition to the inspections specified in Sections 110.3.1 through 110.3.9, AHJ is authorized to make or require other inspections of any construction work to ascertain compliance with the provisions of this code and other laws that are enforced by the department of building safety.
110.3.11 Special inspections.For special inspections, see Chapter 17.
110.3.12 Final inspection.The final inspection shall be made after all work required by the building permit is completed.
110.3.12.1 Flood hazard documentation.If located in a flood hazard area, documentation of the elevation of the lowest floor as required in Section 1612.4 shall be submitted to AHJ prior to the final inspection.
110.4 Inspection agencies.AHJ is authorized to accept reports of approved inspection agencies, provided that such agencies satisfy the requirements as to qualifications and reliability.
110.5 Inspection requests.It shall be the duty of the holder of the building permit or their duly authorized agent to notify AHJ when work is ready for inspection. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to provide access to and means for inspections of such work that are required by this code.
110.6 Approval required.Work shall not be done beyond the point indicated in each successive inspection without first obtaining the approval of AHJ. AHJ, upon notification, shall make the requested inspections and shall either indicate the portion of the construction that is satisfactory as completed, or notify the permit holder or the permit holder’s agent wherein the same fails to comply with this code. Any portions that do not comply shall be corrected and such portion shall not be covered or concealed until authorized by AHJ.
SECTION 111 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY
111.1 Change of occupancy.A building or structure shall not be used or occupied in whole or in part, and a change of occupancy of a building or structure or portion thereof shall not be made, until AHJ has issued a certificate of occupancy therefor as provided herein. Issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall not be construed as an approval of a violation of the provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction. Certificates presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this code or other ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid.Exception: Certificates of occupancy are not required for work exempt from permits in accordance with Section 105.2.
111.2 Certificate issued.After AHJ inspects the building or structure and does not find violations of the provisions of this code or other laws that are enforced by the department, AHJ shall issue a certificate of occupancy that contains the following:1.The permit number.2.The address of the structure.3.The name and address of the owner or the owner’s authorized agent.4.A description of that portion of the structure for which the certificate is issued.5.A statement that the described portion of the structure has been inspected for compliance with the requirementsof this code.6.The name of the AHJ representative.7.The edition of the code under which the permit was issued.8.The use and occupancy, in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 3.9.The type of construction as defined in Chapter 6.10.The design occupant load.11.Where an automatic sprinkler system is provided, whether the sprinkler system is required.12.Any special stipulations and conditions of the building permit.
111.3 Temporary occupancy.AHJ is authorized to issue a temporary certificate of occupancy before the completion of the entire work covered by the permit, provided that such portion or portions shall be occupied safely. AHJ shall set a time period during which the temporary certificate of occupancy is valid.
111.4 Revocation.AHJ is authorized to suspend or revoke a certificate of occupancy or completion issued under the provisions of this code, in writing, wherever the certificate is issued in error, or on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or where it is determined that the building or structure or portion thereof is in violation of the provisions of this code or other ordinance of the jurisdiction.
SECTION 112 SERVICE UTILITIES
112.1 Connection of service utilities.A person shall not make connections from a utility, a source of energy, fuel, or power, or a water system or sewer system to any building or system that is regulated by this code for which a permit is required, until approved by AHJ.
112.2 Temporary connection.AHJ shall have the authority to authorize the temporary connection of the building or system to the utility, the source of energy, fuel, or power, or the water system or sewer system for the purpose of testing systems or for use under a temporary approval.
112.3 Authority to disconnect service utilities.AHJ shall have the authority to authorize disconnection of utility service to the building, structure or system regulated by this code and the referenced codes and standards in case of emergency where necessary to eliminate an immediate hazard to life or property or where such utility connection has been made without the approval required by Section 112.1 or 112.2. AHJ shall notify the serving utility, and wherever possible the owner or the owner’s authorized agent and occupant of the building, structure or service system of the decision to disconnect prior to taking such action. If not notified prior to disconnecting, the owner or the owner’s authorized agent or occupant of the building, structure or service system shall be notified in writing, as soon as practical thereafter.
SECTION 113 MEANS OF APPEALS
113.1 General.The procedures given in the regulations of AHJ regarding appeals, hearing of appeals, duration and their decisions shall be followed. The appeal shall be heard by a committee constituted by the next higher body above AHJ having members with relevant experience, who are registered with PEC, PCATP or AHJ. The committee shall adopt rules of procedure for conducting its business and shall render all decisions and findings in writing to the appellant with a duplicate copy to AHJ.
113.2 Limitations on authority.An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply or an equivalent or better form of construction is proposed. The board shall not have authority to waive requirements of this code or interpret the administration of this code.
113.3 Qualifications.The committee of appeals shall consist of members who are qualified by experience and training to pass on matters pertaining to building construction and are not employees of the jurisdiction.
113.4 Administration. AHJ shall take immediate action in accordance with the decision of the committee.
SECTION 114 VIOLATIONS
114.1 Unlawful acts.It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect, construct, alter, extend, repair, move, remove, demolish or occupy any building, structure or equipment regulated by this code, or cause same to be done, in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of this code.
114.2 Notice of violation.AHJ is authorized to serve a notice of violation or order on the person responsible for the erection, construction, alteration, extension, repair, moving, removal, demolition or occupancy of a building or structure in violation of the provisions of this code, or in violation of a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code. Such order shall direct the discontinuance of the illegal action or condition and the abatement of the violation.
114.3 Prosecution of violation.If the notice of violation is not complied with promptly, AHJ is authorized to request the legal counsel of the jurisdiction to institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to require the removal or termination of the unlawful occupancy of the building or structure in violation of the provisions of this code or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto.
114.4 Violation penalties.Any person who violates a provision of this code or fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who erects, constructs, alters or repairs a building or structure in violation of the approved construction documents or directive of AHJ, or of a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code, shall be subject to penalties as prescribed by law.
SECTION 115 STOP WORK ORDER
115.1 Authority.Where AHJ finds any work regulated by this code being performed in a manner contrary to theprovisions of this code or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, AHJ is authorized to issue a stop work order.
115.2 Issuance.The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, the owner’s authorized agent or the person performing the work. Upon issuance of a stop work order, the cited work shall immediately cease. The stop work order shall state the reason for the order and the conditions under which the cited work is authorized to resume.
115.3 Emergencies.Where an emergency exists, AHJ shall not be required to give a written notice prior to stopping the work.
115.4 Failure to comply.Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to fines established by AHJ.
SECTION 116 UNSAFE STRUCTURES AND EQUIPMENT
116.1 Unsafe conditions.Structures or existing equipment that are or hereafter become unsafe, insanitary or deficient because of inadequate means of egress facilities, inadequate light and ventilation, or that constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous to human life or the public welfare, or that involve illegal or improper occupancy or inadequate maintenance, shall be deemed an unsafe condition. Unsafe structures shall be taken down and removed or made safe, as AHJ deems necessary and as provided for in this section. A vacant structure that is not secured against unauthorized entry shall be deemed unsafe.
116.2 Record.AHJ shall cause a report to be filed on an unsafe condition. The report shall state the occupancy of the structure and the nature of the unsafe condition.
116.3 Notice.If an unsafe condition is found, AHJ shall serve on the owner of the structure, or the owner’s authorized agent, a written notice that describes the condition deemed unsafe and specifies the required repairs or improvements to be made to abate the unsafe condition, or that requires the unsafe structure to be demolished within a stipulated time. Such notice shall require the person thus notified to declare immediately to AHJ acceptance or rejection of the terms of the order.
116.4 Method of service.Such notice shall be deemed properly served where a copy thereof is served in accordance with one of the following methods:1. A copy is delivered to the owner personally.2. A copy is sent by certified or registered mail addressed to the owner at the last known address with the return receipt requested.3. A copy is delivered in any other manner as prescribed by local law.If the certified or registered letter is returned showing that the letter was not delivered, a copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by such notice. Service of such notice in the foregoing manner on the owner’s authorized agent shall constitute service of notice on the owner.
116.5 Restoration or abatement.Where the structure or equipment determined to be unsafe by AHJ is restored to a safe condition, the owner, the owner’s authorized agent, operator or occupant of a structure, premises or equipment deemed unsafe by AHJ shall abate or cause to be abated or corrected such unsafe conditions either by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or other approved corrective action. To the extent that repairs, alterations or additions are made or a change of occupancy occurs during the restoration of the structure, such repairs, alterations, additions and change of occupancy shall comply with the requirements of the International Existing Building Code (IRC)
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
•
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.