======================================================================
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
======================================================================

Preface - International Mechanical Code (IMC)
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2024
International Mechanical Code (IMC)
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2024 International Mechanical Code (IMC) 2024 International Plumbing Code (IPC) 2024 International Fire Code (IFC) 2024 International Residential Code (IRC) 2024 International Building Code (IBC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
I-Codes
/
2024 International Mechanical Code (IMC)
Preface
2024 International Mechanical Code (IMC)
favorite_border
Version:
Oct 2025
Contents
Notes
Insights
Overview
Copyright
Preface
Formatting Changes to the 2024 International Codes
About the I-Codes
Introduction to the International Mechanical Code
Arrangement and Format of the 2024 IMC
Relocation of Text or Tables
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Chapter 2 Definitions
Chapter 3 General Regulations
Chapter 4 Ventilation
Chapter 5 Exhaust Systems
Chapter 6 Duct Systems
Chapter 7 Combustion Air
Chapter 8 Chimneys and Vents
Chapter 9 Specific Appliances, Fireplaces and Solid Fuel-Burning Equipment
Chapter 10 Boilers, Water Heaters and Pressure Vessels
Chapter 11 Refrigeration
Chapter 12 Hydronic Piping
Chapter 13 Fuel Oil Piping and Storage
Chapter 14 Solar Thermal Systems
Chapter 15 Referenced Standards
Appendix A Chimney Connector Pass-Throughs
Appendix B Recommended Permit Fee Schedule
[A] Appendix C Board of Appeals
Appendix D Clean Air Delivery
Appendix E Clean Air Delivery and Monitoring
Index
Content Updates—Version 2
Ica Interim Critical Amendment Tsg-000001
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
Preface
Formatting Changes to the 2024 International Codes The 2024 International Codes®(I-Codes®) have undergone substantial formatting changes as part of the digital transformation strategy of the International Code Council®(ICC®) to improve the user experience. The resulting product better aligns the print and PDF versions of the I-Codes with the ICC’s Digital Codes content. Additional information can be found at iccsafe.org/design-updates.
Replacement of Marginal Markings with QR Codes
Through 2021, print editions of the I-Codes identified technical changes from prior code cycles with marginal markings [solid vertical lines for new text, deletion arrows (), asterisks for relocations (*)]. The 2024 I-Code print editions replace the marginal markings with QR codes to identify code changes more precisely.A QR code is placed at the beginning of any section that has undergone technical revision. If there is no QR code, there are no technical changes to that section.In the following example from the 2024 International Mechanical Code®(IMC®), a QR code indicates there are changes to Section 601 from the 2021 IMC. Note that the change may occur in the main section or in one or more subsections of the main section. To see the code changes, the user need only scan the QR code with a smart device. If scanning a QR code is not an option, changes can be accessed by entering the 7-digit code beneath the QR code at the end of the following URL: qr.iccsafe.org/ (in the above example, “qr.iccsafe.org/3809efa”). Those viewing the code book via PDF can click on the QR code.All methods take the user to the appropriate section on ICC’s Digital Codes website, where technical changes from the prior cycle can be viewed. Digital Codes Premium subscribers who are logged in will be automatically directed to the Premium view. All other users will be directed to the Digital Codes Basic free view. Both views show new code language in blue text along with deletion arrows for deleted text and relocation markers for relocated text.Digital Codes Premium offers additional ways to enhance code compliance research, including revision histories, commentary by code experts and an advanced search function. A full list of features can be found at codes.iccsafe.org/premium-features.
About the I-Codes The 2024 I-Codes, published by the ICC, are 15 fully compatible titles intended to establish provisions that adequately protect public health, safety and welfare; that do not unnecessarily increase construction costs; that do not restrict the use of new materials, products or methods of construction; and that do not give preferential treatment to particular types or classes of materials, products or methods of construction.The I-Codes are updated on a 3-year cycle to allow for new construction methods and technologies to be incorporated into the codes. Alternative materials, designs and methods not specifically addressed in the I-Code can be approved by the building official where the proposed materials, designs or methods comply with the intent of the provisions of the code.The I-Codes are used as the basis of laws and regulations in communities across the US and in other countries. They are also used in a variety of nonregulatory settings, including: Voluntary compliance programs. The insurance industry. Certification and credentialing for building design, construction and safety professionals. Certification of building and construction-related products. Facilities management. “Best practices” benchmarks for designers and builders. College, university and professional school textbooks and curricula. Reference works related to building design and construction.
Code Development Process
The code development process regularly provides an international forum for building professionals to discuss requirements for building design, construction methods, safety, performance, technological advances and new products. Proposed changes to the I-Codes, submitted by code enforcement officials, industry representatives, design professionals and other interested parties are deliberated through an open code development process in which all interested and affected parties may participate.Openness, transparency, balance, due process and consensus are the guiding principles of both the ICC Code Development Process and OMB Circular A-119, which governs the federal government’s use of private-sector standards. The ICC process is open to anyone without cost. Remote participation is available through cdpAccess®, the ICC’s cloud-based app.In order to ensure that organizations with a direct and material interest in the codes have a voice in the process, the ICC has developed partnerships with key industry segments that support the ICC’s important public safety mission. Some code development committee members were nominated by the following industry partners and approved by the ICC Board: American Gas Association (AGA) American Institute of Architects (AIA) American Society of Plumbing Engineers (ASPE) International Association of Fire Chiefs (IAFC) National Association of Home Builders (NAHB) National Association of State Fire Marshals (NASFM) National Council of Structural Engineers Association (NCSEA) National Multifamily Housing Council (NMHC) Plumbing Heating and Cooling Contractors (PHCC) Pool and Hot Tub Alliance (PHTA), formerly The Association of Pool and Spa Professionals (APSP) Code development committees evaluate and make recommendations regarding proposed changes to the codes. Their recommendations are then subject to public comment and council-wide votes. The ICC’s governmental members—public safety officials who have no financial or business interest in the outcome—cast the final votes on proposed changes.The I-Codes are subject to change through future code development cycles and by any governmental entity that enacts the code into law. For more information regarding the code development process, contact the Codes and Standards Development Department of the ICC at iccsafe.org/products-and-services/i-codes/code-development/.While the I-Code development procedure is thorough and comprehensive, the ICC, its members and those participating in the development of the codes expressly disclaim any liability resulting from the publication or use of the I-Codes, or from compliance or noncompliance with their provisions. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, IMPLIED, EXPRESSED OR STATUTORY, IS GIVEN WITH RESPECT TO THE I-CODES. The ICC does not have the power or authority to police or enforce compliance with the contents of the I-Codes.
Code Development Committee Responsibilities
(Letter Designations in Front of Section Numbers) In each cycle, proposed changes are considered by the Code Development Committee assigned to a specific code or subject matter. Committee Action Hearings result in recommendations regarding a proposal to the voting membership. Where changes to a code section are not considered by that code’s own committee, the code section is preceded by a bracketed letter designation identifying a different committee. Bracketed letter designations for the I-Code committees are: [A] = Administrative Code Development Committee [BE] = IBC—Egress Code Development Committee [BF] = IBC—Fire Safety Code Development Committee [BG] = IBC—General Code Development Committee [BS] = IBC—Structural Code Development Committee [E] = Developed under the ICC’s Standard Development Process [EB] = International Existing Building Code Development Committee [F] = International Fire Code Development Committee [FG] = International Fuel Gas Code Development Committee [M] = International Mechanical Code Development Committee [P] = International Plumbing Code Development Committee [SP] = International Swimming Pool and Spa Code Development Committee For the development of the 2027 edition of the I-Codes, the ICC Board of Directors approved a standing motion from the Board Committee on the Long-Term Code Development Process to revise the code development cycle to incorporate two committee action hearings for each code group. This change expands the current process from two independent 1-year cycles to a single continuous 3-year cycle. There will be two groups of code development committees and they will meet in separate years. The current groups will be reworked. With the energy provisions of the International Energy Conservation Code®(IECC®) and Chapter 11 of the International Residential Code®(IRC®) now moved to the Code Council’s Standards Development Process, the reduced volume of code changes will be distributed between Groups A and B.Code change proposals submitted for code sections that have a letter designation in front of them will be heard by the respective committee responsible for such code sections. Because different committees hold Committee Action Hearings in different years, proposals for most codes will be heard by committees in both the 2024 (Group A) and the 2025 (Group B) code development cycles. It is very important that anyone submitting code change proposals understands which code development committee is responsible for the section of the code that is the subject of the code change proposal.Please visit the ICC website at iccsafe.org/products-and-services/i-codes/code-development/current-code-development-cycle for further information on the Code Development Committee responsibilities as it becomes available.
Coordination of the I-Codes
The coordination of technical provisions allows the I-Codes to be used as a complete set of complementary documents. Individual codes can also be used in subsets or as stand-alone documents. Some technical provisions that are relevant to more than one subject area are duplicated in multiple model codes.
Italicized Terms
Words and terms defined in Chapter 2, Definitions, are italicized where they appear in code text and the Chapter 2 definitions apply. Although care has been taken to ensure applicable terms are italicized, there may be instances where a defined term has not been italicized or where a term is italicized but the definition found in Chapter 2 is not applicable. For example, Chapter 2 of the International Building Code®(IBC®) contains a definition for “Listed” that is applicable to equipment, products and services. The term “listed” is also used in that code to refer to a list of items within the code or within a referenced document. For the latter, the Chapter 2 definition would not be applicable.
Adoption of International Code Council Codes and Standards
The International Code Council maintains a copyright in all of its codes and standards. Maintaining copyright allows the Code Council to fund its mission through sales of books in both print and digital formats. The Code Council welcomes incorporation by reference of its codes and standards by jurisdictions that recognize and acknowledge the Code Council’s copyright in the codes and standards, and further acknowledge the substantial shared value of the public/private partnership for code development between jurisdictions and the Code Council. By making its codes and standards available for incorporation by reference, the Code Council does not waive its copyright in its codes and standards.The Code Council’s codes and standards may only be adopted by incorporation by reference in an ordinance passed by the governing body of the jurisdiction. “Incorporation by reference” means that in the adopting ordinance, the governing body cites only the title, edition, relevant sections or subsections (where applicable), and publishing information of the model code or standard, and the actual text of the model code or standard is not included in the ordinance (see graphic, “Adoption of International Code Council Codes and Standards”). The Code Council does not consent to the reproduction of the text of its codes or standards in any ordinance. If the governing body enacts any changes, only the text of those changes or amendments may be included in the ordinance. The Code Council also recognizes the need for jurisdictions to make laws accessible to the public. Accordingly, all I-Codes and I-Standards, along with the laws of many jurisdictions, are available to view for free at codes.iccsafe.org/codes/i-codes. These documents may also be purchased, in both digital and print versions, at shop.iccsafe.org.To facilitate adoption, some I-Code sections contain blanks for fill-in information that needs to be supplied by the adopting jurisdiction as part of the adoption legislation. For example, the IMC contains:Section 101.1. Insert: [NAME OF JURISDICTION]Section 103.1. Insert: [NAME OF DEPARTMENT]Section 114.4. Insert: [OFFENSE, DOLLAR AMOUNT, NUMBER OF DAYS]For further information or assistance with adoption, including a sample ordinance, jurisdictions should contact the Code Council at incorporation@iccsafe.org.For a list of frequently asked questions (FAQs) addressing a range of foundational topics about the adoption of model codes by jurisdictions and to learn more about the Code Council’s code adoption resources, scan the QR code or visit iccsafe.org/code-adoption-resources.
Introduction to the International Mechanical Code The IMC establishes minimum requirements for mechanical systems using prescriptive and performance-related provisions. It is founded on broad-based principles that make possible the use of new materials and new mechanical designs. This 2024 edition is fully compatible with all of the I-Codes published by the ICC.The IMC is a model code that regulates the design and installation of mechanical systems, appliances, appliance venting, duct and ventilation systems, combustion air provisions, hydronic systems and solar systems. The purpose of the code is to establish the minimum acceptable level of safety and to protect life and property from the potential dangers associated with the installation and operation of mechanical systems. The code also protects the personnel that install, maintain, service and replace the systems and appliances addressed by this code.The IMC is primarily a prescriptive code with some performance text. The code relies heavily on product specifications and listings to provide much of the appliance and equipment installation requirements. Alternative materials, designs and methods of construction not specifically addressed in this code may be approved by the code official where the proposed materials, designs and methods of construction comply with the intent of the provisions of this code (see Section 104.2.3).
Arrangement and Format of the 2024 IMC The format of the IMC allows each chapter to be devoted to a particular subject with the exception of Chapter 3, which contains general subject matters that are not extensive enough to warrant their own independent chapter.The following table shows how the IMC is divided. The subsequent table shows IMC requirements that are correlated with other I-Codes. The chapter synopses detail the scope and intent of the provisions of the IMC.
CHAPTER TOPICS
CHAPTERS
SUBJECTS
1 Scope and Administration
2 Definitions
3 General Regulations
4 Ventilation
5 Exhaust Systems
6 Duct Systems
7 Combustion Air
8 Chimneys and Vents
9 Specific Appliances, Fireplaces and Solid Fuel-Burning Equipment
10 Boilers, Water Heaters and Pressure Vessels
11 Refrigeration
12 Hydronic Piping
13 Fuel Oil Piping and Storage
14 Solar Thermal Systems
15 Referenced Standards
Appendix A Chimney Connector Pass-throughs
Appendix B Recommended Permit Fee Schedule
Appendix C Board of Appeals
Appendix D Clean Air Delivery
Appendix E Clean Air Delivery and Monitoring
International Building Code Correlated Topics
The IMC requirements for smoke control systems and smoke and fire dampers are directly correlated with the requirements of the IBC. The following table shows chapters/sections of the IMC that are correlated with the IBC:
IMC/IBC CORRELATED TOPICS
IMC CHAPTER/SECTION
IBC CHAPTER/SECTION
SUBJECT
Section 607
Section 717
Smoke and fire dampers
Section 513
Section 909
Smoke control
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration.
Chapter 1 establishes the limits of applicability of the code and describes how the code is to be applied and enforced. The provisions of Chapter 1 establish the authority and duties of the code official appointed by the authority having jurisdiction and also establish the rights and privileges of the design professional, contractor and property owner.
Chapter 2 Definitions.
Chapter 2 is the repository of the definitions of terms used in the body of the code. The user of the code should be familiar with and consult this chapter because the definitions are essential to the correct interpretation of the code and because the user may not be aware that a term is defined.
Chapter 3 General Regulations.
Chapter 3 contains broadly applicable requirements related to appliance location and installation, appliance and systems access, protection of structural elements, condensate disposal and clearances to combustibles, among others.
Chapter 4 Ventilation.
Chapter 4 includes means for ventilating spaces within buildings to promote a healthy and comfortable environment for the occupants, to protect the building structure from the harmful effects of excessive humidity and heat to minimize the potential for toxic or otherwise harmful substances to reach dangerously high concentrations in air.
Chapter 5 Exhaust Systems.
Chapter 5 provides requirements for reasonable protection of life, property and health from the hazards associated with exhaust systems, air contaminants and smoke development in the event of a fire. In most cases, these hazards involve materials and gases that are flammable, explosive, toxic or otherwise hazardous, including commercial kitchen grease- and smoke-laden air; hazardous fumes and toxic gases; clothes dryer moisture and heat; and dust, stock and refuse materials.
Chapter 6 Duct Systems.
Chapter 6 of the code regulates the materials and methods used for constructing and installing ducts, plenums, system controls, exhaust systems, fire protection systems and related components that affect the overall performance of a building’s air distribution system. This chapter also provides for the reasonable protection of life and property from the hazards associated with air-moving equipment and systems. The provisions for the protection of duct penetrations of wall, floor, ceiling and roof assemblies are extracted from the IBC.
Chapter 7 Combustion Air.
The specific combustion air requirements provided in previous editions of the code have been deleted in favor of a single section that directs the user to NFPA 31 for oil-fired appliance combustion air requirements and the manufacturer’s installation instructions for solid fuel-burning appliances. Complete combustion of solid and liquid fuel is essential for the proper operation of appliances, for control of harmful emissions and for achieving maximum fuel efficiency.
Chapter 8 Chimneys and Vents.
Chapter 8 is intended to regulate the design, construction, installation, maintenance, repair and approval of chimneys, vents and their connections to solid and liquid fuel-burning appliances, in order to achieve the complete removal of the products of combustion from fuel-burning appliances and equipment.
Chapter 9 Specific Appliances, Fireplaces and Solid Fuel-Burning Equipment.
Chapter 9 sets minimum construction and performance criteria for fireplaces, appliances and equipment and provides for the safe installation of these items. Other regulations affecting the installation of solid fuel-burning fireplaces, appliances and accessory appliances are found in Chapters 3, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14.
Chapter 10 Boilers, Water Heaters and Pressure Vessels.
Chapter 10 presents regulations for the proper installation of boilers, water heaters and pressure vessels to protect life and property from the hazards associated with those appliances and vessels. Certain safety features are therefore provided in Chapter 10 to reduce the potential for explosion hazards.
Chapter 11 Refrigeration.
Chapter 11 contains regulations that establish minimum requirements to achieve the proper design, construction, installation and operation of refrigeration systems. This chapter establishes reasonable safeguards for the occupants by defining and mandating practices that are consistent with the practices and experience of the industry.
Chapter 12 Hydronic Piping.
Hydronic piping includes piping, fittings and valves used in building space conditioning systems. Applications include hot water, chilled water, steam, steam condensate, brines and water/antifreeze mixtures. Chapter 12 contains the provisions that govern the construction, installation, alteration and repair of all hydronic piping systems that affect reliability, serviceability, energy efficiency and safety.
Chapter 13 Fuel Oil Piping and Storage.
Chapter 13 regulates the design and installation of fuel oil storage and piping systems by providing reference to construction standards, material standards and extensive requirements for the proper assembly of system piping and components. The provisions in this chapter are intended to prevent fires, leaks and spills involving fuel oil storage and piping systems.
Chapter 14 Solar Thermal Systems.
Chapter 14 establishes provisions for the safe installation, operation and repair of solar energy systems used for space heating or cooling, domestic hot water heating or processing. Although such systems use components similar to those of conventional mechanical equipment, many of these provisions are unique to solar energy systems.
Chapter 15 Referenced Standards.
Chapter 15 lists all of the product and installation standards and codes that are referenced throughout Chapters 1 through 14 and includes identification of the promulgators and the section numbers in which the standards and codes are referenced. As stated in Section 102.8, these standards and codes become an enforceable part of the code (to the prescribed extent of the reference) as if printed in the body of the code.
Appendix A Chimney Connector Pass-Throughs.
Appendix A provides figures that illustrate various requirements in the body of the code. Figures A101.1(1) and A101.1(2) illustrate the chimney connector clearance requirements of Table 803.10.4.
Appendix B Recommended Permit Fee Schedule.
Appendix B provides a sample permit fee schedule for mechanical permits. The local jurisdiction can adopt this appendix and fill in the dollar amounts in the blank spaces to establish their official permit fee schedule.
Appendix C Board of Appeals.
Appendix C contains the provisions for appeal and the establishment of a board of appeals. The provisions include the application for an appeal, the makeup of the board of appeals and the conduct of the appeal process.
Appendix D Clean Air Delivery
Appendix D provides criteria for an increased protection level for occupant health by delivering clean air in occupied areas of certain buildings.
Appendix E Clean Air Delivery and Monitoring
Appendix E provides criteria for an increased protection level for occupant health by delivering and monitoring clean air in occupied areas of certain buildings.
Relocation of Text or Tables The following table indicates relocation of sections and tables in the 2024 edition of the IMC from the 2021 edition.
RELOCATIONS
2024 LOCATION
2021 LOCATION
104.2.2.4 105.3
104.2.3 105.2
104.2.3.6 105.2.1
104.2.4 105.1
104.9 105.4
507.1.6 507.4
507.1.6.1 507.4.1
507.1.6.2 507.4.2
507.2.10 507.5
507.2.10.1 507.5.1
507.2.10.2 507.5.2
507.2.10.3 507.5.3
507.2.11 509.1
507.3.4.1 507.5.4
507.3.4.2 507.5.5
508.1.2 506.3.1.2
1109.6.1 1109.8.1
1109.6.2 1109.8.2
1109.6.3 1109.8.3
1109.6.4 1109.8.4
1203.9 1203.1
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
•
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.