======================================================================
Chapter 4 Light, Ventilation and Occupancy Limitations
======================================================================

Chapter 3 General Requirements - International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC)
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2024
International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC)
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2024 International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC) 2024 International Energy Conservation Code (IECC) 2024 International Existing Building Code (IEBC) 2024 International Fuel Gas Code (IFGC) 2024 International Mechanical Code (IMC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
I-Codes
/
2024 International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC)
Chapter 3 General Requirements
2024 International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC)
favorite_border
Version:
Sep 2025
Contents
Notes
Insights
Overview
Copyright
Preface
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Chapter 2 Definitions
Chapter 3 General Requirements
Section 301 General
Section 302 Exterior Property Areas
Section 303 Swimming Pools, Spas and Hot Tubs
Section 304 Exterior Structure
Section 305 Interior Structure
Section 306 Component Serviceability
Section 307 Handrails and Guardrails
Section 308 Rubbish and Garbage
Section 309 Pest Elimination
Section 310 Accessibility
Section 311 Storm Shelters
Chapter 4 Light, Ventilation and Occupancy Limitations
Chapter 5 Plumbing Facilities and Fixture Requirements
Chapter 6 Mechanical and Electrical Requirements
Chapter 7 Fire Safety Requirements
Chapter 8 Referenced Standards
Appendix A Boarding Standard
Appendix B Board of Appeals
Index
Content Updates—Version 3
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
Chapter 3 General Requirements
User notes:
About this chapter: Chapter 3 is broad in scope and includes a variety of requirements for the maintenance of exterior property areas, as well as the interior and exterior elements of the structure, that are intended to maintain a minimum level of safety and sanitation for both the general public and the occupants of a structure, and to maintain a building’s structural and weather-resistance performance. Specifically, Chapter 3 contains criteria for the maintenance of building components; vacant structures and land; the safety, sanitation and appearance of the interior and exterior of structures and all exterior property areas; accessory structures; extermination of insects and rodents; access barriers to swimming pools, spas and hot tubs; vehicle storage and owner/occupant responsibilities.
Section 301 General
CDP
301.1 Scope.
CDP
The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum conditions and the responsibilities of persons for maintenance of structures, equipment and exterior property.
301.2 Responsibility.
The owner of the premises shall maintain the structures and exterior property in compliance with these requirements and the code under which the building was constructed, except as otherwise provided for in this code. The owner or owner’s agent shall be responsible to ensure that any repairs, additions or alterations to the building or portion thereof are performed or constructed in accordance with the International Building Code, International Residential Code or International Existing Building Code. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another person to occupy premises that are not in a sanitary and safe condition and that do not comply with the requirements of this chapter. Occupants of a dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit are responsible for keeping in a clean, sanitary and safe condition that part of the dwelling unit, rooming unit, housekeeping unit or premises they occupy and control.
301.3 Vacant structures and land.
Vacant structures and premises thereof or vacant land shall be maintained in a clean, safe, secure and sanitary condition as provided herein so as not to cause a blighting problem or adversely affect the public health or safety.
Section 302 Exterior Property Areas
302.1 Sanitation.
Exterior property and premises shall be maintained in a clean, safe and sanitary condition. The occupant shall keep that part of the exterior property that such occupant occupies or controls in a clean and sanitary condition.
302.2 Grading and drainage.
CDP
Premises shall be graded and maintained to prevent the erosion of soil and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water thereon, or within any structure located thereon.Exception: Approved retention areas and reservoirs.
302.3 Sidewalks and driveways.
Sidewalks, walkways, stairs, driveways, parking spaces and similar areas shall be kept in a proper state of repair, and maintained free from hazardous conditions.
302.4 Weeds.
Premises and exterior property shall be maintained free from weeds or plant growth in excess of
[JURISDICTION TO INSERT HEIGHT IN INCHES] . Noxious weeds shall be prohibited. Weeds shall be defined as all grasses, annual plants and vegetation, other than trees or shrubs provided; however, this term shall not include cultivated flowers and gardens.Upon failure of the owner or agent having charge of a property to cut and destroy weeds after service of a notice of violation, they shall be subject to prosecution in accordance with Section 107.3 and as prescribed by the authority having jurisdiction. Upon failure to comply with the notice of violation, any duly authorized employee of the jurisdiction or contractor hired by the jurisdiction shall be authorized to enter upon the property in violation and cut and destroy the weeds growing thereon, and the costs of such removal shall be paid by the owner or agent responsible for the property.
302.5 Rodent harborage.
Structures and exterior property shall be kept free from rodent harborage and infestation. Where rodents are found, they shall be promptly exterminated by approved processes that will not be injurious to human health. After pest elimination, proper precautions shall be taken to eliminate rodent harborage and prevent reinfestation.
302.6 Exhaust vents.
Pipes, ducts, conductors, fans or blowers shall not discharge gases, steam, vapor, hot air, grease, smoke, odors or other gaseous or particulate wastes directly on abutting or adjacent public or private property or that of another tenant.
302.7 Accessory structures.
Accessory structures, including detached garages, fences and walls, shall be maintained structurally sound and in good repair.
302.8 Motor vehicles.
Except as provided for in other regulations, inoperative or unlicensed motor vehicles shall not be parked, kept or stored on any premises, and vehicles shall not at any time be in a state of major disassembly, disrepair, or in the process of being stripped or dismantled. Painting of vehicles is prohibited unless conducted inside an approved spray booth.Exception: A vehicle of any type is permitted to undergo major overhaul, including body work, provided that such work is performed inside a structure or similarly enclosed area designed and approved for such purposes.
302.9 Defacement of property.
A person shall not willfully or wantonly damage, mutilate or deface any exterior surface of any structure or building on any private or public property by placing thereon any marking, carving or graffiti.It shall be the responsibility of the owner to restore said surface to an approved state of maintenance and repair.
Section 303 Swimming Pools, Spas and Hot Tubs
303.1 Swimming pools.
Swimming pools shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition, and in good repair.
303.2 Enclosures.
CDP
Private swimming pools, hot tubs and spas, containing water more than 24 inches (610 mm) in depth shall be completely surrounded by a fence or barrier not less than 48 inches (1219 mm) in height above the finished ground level measured on the side of the barrier away from the pool. Gates and doors in such barriers shall be self-closing and self-latching. Where the self-latching device is less than 54 inches (1372 mm) above the bottom of the gate, the release mechanism shall be located on the pool side of the gate. Self-closing and self-latching gates shall be maintained such that the gate will positively close and latch when released from an open position of 6 inches (152 mm) from the gatepost. An existing pool enclosure shall not be removed, replaced or changed in a manner that reduces its effectiveness as a safety barrier. Exceptions:
1.
Spas or hot tubs equipped with a lockable safety cover that complies with ASTM F1346.
2.
Private swimming pools equipped with a power safety cover that complies with ASTM F1346 and is in working condition using the control switch.
Section 304 Exterior Structure
304.1 General.
CDP
The exterior of a structure shall be maintained in good repair, structurally sound and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the public health, safety or welfare.
304.1.1 Potentially unsafe conditions.
CDP
The following conditions shall be considered to be potentially unsafe, shall be assessed and shall be addressed in compliance with the International Existing Building Code, the International Residential Code or the International Building Code:1. Structural members have deterioration or distress that appears to reduce their load-carrying capacity. 2.The anchorage of the floor or roof to walls or columns, and of walls and columns to foundations has deterioration or distress that appears to reduce its load-carrying capacity. 3.Structures or components thereof have
deterioration or distress that appears to reduce their load-carrying capacity. 4.Siding and masonry joints including joints between the building envelope and the perimeter of windows, doors and skylights are not maintained, weather resistant or watertight.➡
5.
Foundation systems that are not firmly supported by footings, are not plumb and free from open cracks and breaks, are not properly anchored or are not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects. 6. Exterior walls that are not anchored to supporting and supported elements or are not plumb and free of holes, cracks or breaks and loose or rotting materials, are not properly anchored or are not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects. 7.
Roofing or roofing components that have defects that admit rain, roof surfaces with inadequate drainage, or any portion of the roof framing that is not in good repair with signs of deterioration, fatigue or without proper anchorage and incapable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects. 8. Flooring and flooring components with defects that affect serviceability or flooring components that show signs of deterioration or fatigue, are not properly anchored or are incapable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects. 9.
Veneer, cornices, belt courses, corbels, trim, wall facings and similar decorative features not properly anchored or that are anchored with connections not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects. 10.
Overhang extensions or projections including, but not limited to, trash chutes, canopies, marquees, signs, awnings, fire escapes, standpipes and exhaust ducts not properly anchored or that are anchored with connections not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects. 11.
Exterior stairs, decks, porches, balconies and all similar appurtenances attached thereto, including guards and handrails, are not structurally sound, not properly anchored or that are anchored with connections not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects. 12.
Chimneys, cooling towers, smokestacks and similar appurtenances not structurally sound or not properly anchored, or that are anchored with connections not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects. Exceptions: 1.Where substantiated otherwise by an approved method.2.Demolition of unsafe conditions shall be permitted where approved by the code official.
304.2 Protective treatment.
CDP
Exterior surfaces, including but not limited to, doors, door and window frames, cornices, porches, trim, balconies, decks and fences, shall be maintained in good condition. Exterior wood surfaces, other than decay-resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and decay by painting or other protective covering or treatment. Peeling, flaking and chipped paint shall be eliminated and surfaces repainted. Siding and masonry joints, as well as those between the building envelope and the perimeter of windows, doors and skylights, shall be maintained weather resistant and water tight. Metal surfaces subject to rust or corrosion shall be coated to inhibit such rust and corrosion, and surfaces with rust or corrosion shall be stabilized and coated to inhibit future rust and corrosion. Oxidation stains shall be removed from exterior surfaces. Surfaces designed for stabilization by oxidation are exempt from this requirement.
[F] 304.3 Premises identification.
Buildings shall have approved address numbers placed in a position to be plainly legible and visible from the street or road fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with their background. Address numbers shall be Arabic numerals or alphabet letters. Numbers shall be not less than 4 inches (102 mm) in height with a minimum stroke width of 0.5 inch (12.7 mm).
304.4 Structural members.
Structural members shall be maintained free from deterioration, and shall be capable of safely supporting the imposed dead and live loads.
304.5 Foundation walls.
Foundation walls shall be maintained plumb and free from open cracks and breaks and shall be kept in such condition so as to prevent the entry of rodents and other pests.
304.6 Exterior walls.
Exterior walls shall be free from holes, breaks, and loose or rotting materials; and maintained weatherproof and properly surface coated where required to prevent deterioration.
304.7 Roofs and drainage.
The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and not have defects that admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the
structure. Roof drains, gutters and downspouts shall be maintained in good repair and free from obstructions. Roof water shall not be discharged in a manner that creates a public nuisance.
304.8 Decorative features.
CDP
Cornices, belt courses, corbels, terra cotta trim, wall facings and similar decorative features shall be maintained in good repair with proper anchorage and in a safe condition.
304.9 Overhang extensions.
CDP
Overhang extensions including, but not limited to, canopies, marquees, signs, metal awnings, fire escapes, standpipes and exhaust ducts shall be maintained in good repair and be properly anchored so as to be kept in a sound condition. Where required, all exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from the elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather-coating materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.
304.10 Stairways, decks, porches and balconies.
CDP
Every exterior stairway, deck, porch and balcony, and all appurtenances attached thereto, shall be maintained structurally sound, in good repair, with proper anchorage and capable of supporting the imposed loads.
304.11 Chimneys and towers.
CDP
Chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks, and similar appurtenances shall be maintained structurally safe and sound, and in good repair. Exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from the elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather-coating materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.
304.12 Handrails and guards.
CDP
Every handrail and guard shall be firmly fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be maintained in good condition.
304.13 Window, skylight and door frames.
CDP
Every window, skylight, door and frame shall be kept in sound condition, good repair and weathertight.
304.13.1 Glazing.
Glazing materials shall be maintained free from cracks and holes.
304.13.2 Openable windows.
CDP
Every window, other than a fixed window, shall be easily openable and capable of being held in position by window hardware.
304.14 Insect screens.
During the period from [DATE] to [DATE], every door, window and other outside opening required for ventilation of habitable rooms, food preparation areas, food service areas or any areas where products to be included or utilized in food for human consumption are processed, manufactured, packaged or stored shall be supplied with approved tightly fitting screens of minimum 16 mesh per inch (16 mesh per 25 mm), and every screen door used for insect control shall have a self-closing device in good working condition.Exception: Screens shall not be required where other approved means, such as air curtains or insect repellent fans, are employed.
304.15 Doors.
CDP
Exterior doors, door assemblies, operator systems if provided, and hardware shall be maintained in good condition. Locks at all entrances to dwelling units and sleeping units shall tightly secure the door. Locks on means of egress doors shall be in accordance with Section 702.3.
304.16 Basement hatchways.
CDP
Every basement hatchway shall be maintained to prevent the entrance of rodents, rain and surface drainage water.
304.17 Guards for basement windows.
CDP
Every basement window that is openable shall be supplied with rodent shields, storm windows or other approved protection against the entry of rodents.
304.18 Building security.
CDP
Doors, windows or hatchways for dwelling units, room units or housekeeping units shall be provided with devices designed to provide security for the occupants and property within.
304.18.1 Doors.
CDP
Doors providing access to an individual dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit that is rented, leased or let
where equipped with a deadbolt lock, the deadbolt shall be designed to be readily openable from the side from which egress is to be made without the need for keys, special knowledge or effort and shall have a minimum lock throw of 1 inch (25 mm). Such deadbolt locks shall be installed according to the manufacturer’s specifications and maintained in good working order. For the purpose of this section, a sliding bolt shall not be considered an acceptable deadbolt lock.
304.18.2 Windows.
Operable windows located in whole or in part within 6 feet (1828 mm) above ground level or a walking surface below that provide access to a dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit that is rented, leased or let shall be equipped with a window sash locking device.
304.18.3 Basement hatchways.
Basement hatchways that provide access to a dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit that is rented, leased or let shall be equipped with devices that secure the units from unauthorized entry.
304.19 Gates.
CDP
Exterior gates, gate assemblies, operator systems if provided, and hardware shall be maintained in good condition. Latches at all entrances shall tightly secure the gates.
Section 305 Interior Structure
305.1 General.
CDP
The interior of a structure and equipment therein shall be maintained in good repair, structurally sound and in a sanitary condition. Occupants shall keep that part of the structure that they occupy or control in a clean and sanitary condition. Every owner of a structure containing a rooming house, housekeeping units, a hotel, a dormitory, two or more dwelling units or two or more nonresidential occupancies, shall maintain, in a clean and sanitary condition, the shared or public areas of the structure and exterior property.
305.1.1 Potentially unsafe conditions.
CDP
The following conditions shall be considered to be potentially unsafe, shall be assessed and shall be addressed in compliance with the International Existing Building Code, the International Residential Code or the International Building Code:1.Structural members have deterioration or distress that appears to reduce their load-carrying capacity.2.The anchorage of the floor or roof to walls or columns, and of walls and columns to foundations has deterioration or distress that appears to reduce its load-carrying capacity.3.Structures or components thereof have deterioration or distress that appears to reduce their load-carrying capacity.➡
4. Stairs, landings, balconies and all similar walking surfaces, including guards and handrails, are not structurally sound, not properly anchored or are anchored with connections not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects. 5. Foundation systems that are not firmly supported by footings are not plumb and free from open cracks and breaks, are not properly anchored or are not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects. Exceptions: 1.Where substantiated otherwise by an approved method.2.Demolition of unsafe conditions shall be permitted where approved by the code official.
305.2 Structural members.
Structural members shall be maintained structurally sound, and be capable of supporting the imposed loads.
305.3 Interior surfaces.
Interior surfaces, including windows and doors, shall be maintained in good, clean and sanitary condition. Peeling, chipping, flaking or abraded paint shall be repaired, removed or covered. Cracked or loose plaster, decayed wood and other defective surface conditions shall be corrected.
305.4 Stairs and walking surfaces.
CDP
Every stair, ramp, landing, balcony, porch, deck or other walking surface shall be maintained in sound condition and good repair.
305.5 Handrails and guards.
CDP
Every handrail and guard shall be firmly fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be maintained in good condition.
305.6 Interior doors.
Every interior door shall fit reasonably well within its frame and shall be capable of being opened and closed by being properly and securely attached to jambs, headers or tracks as intended by the manufacturer of the attachment hardware.
Section 306 Component Serviceability
306.1 General.
The components of a structure and equipment therein shall be maintained in good repair, structurally sound and in a sanitary condition.
306.1.1 Potentially unsafe conditions.
CDP
Where any of the following conditions cause the component or system to be beyond its limit state, the component or system shall be considered to be unsafe and shall be addressed in compliance with the International Existing Building Code, the International Residential Code or the International Building Code:1.Soils that have been subjected to any of the following conditions:1.1.Collapse of footing or foundation system.1.2.Damage to footing, foundation, concrete or other structural element due to soil expansion.1.3.Adverse effects to the design strength of footing, foundation, concrete or other structural element due to a chemical reaction from the soil.1.4.Inadequate soil as determined by a geotechnical investigation.1.5.Where the allowable bearing capacity of the soil is in doubt.1.6.Adverse effects to the footing, foundation, concrete or other structural element due to the ground water table.2.Concrete that has been subjected to any of the following conditions:2.1.Deterioration.2.2.Ultimate deformation.2.3.Fractures.2.4.Fissures.2.5.Spalling.2.6.Exposed reinforcement.2.7.Detached, dislodged or failing connections.3.Aluminum that has been subjected to any of the following conditions:3.1.Deterioration.3.2.Corrosion.3.3.Elastic deformation.3.4.Ultimate deformation. 3.5.Stress or strain cracks.3.6.Joint fatigue.3.7.Detached, dislodged or failing connections.4.Masonry that has been subjected to any of the following conditions:4.1.Deterioration.4.2.Ultimate deformation.4.3.Fractures in masonry or mortar joints.4.4.Fissures in masonry or mortar joints.4.5.Spalling.4.6.Exposed reinforcement.4.7.Detached, dislodged or failing connections.5.Steel that has been subjected to any of the following conditions:5.1.Deterioration.5.2.Elastic deformation.5.3.Ultimate deformation.5.4.Metal fatigue.5.5.Detached, dislodged or failing connections.6.Wood that has been subjected to any of the following conditions:6.1.Ultimate deformation.6.2.Deterioration.6.3.Damage from insects, rodents and other vermin.6.4.Fire damage beyond charring.6.5.Significant splits and checks.6.6.Horizontal shear cracks.6.7.Vertical shear cracks.6.8.Inadequate support.6.9.Detached, dislodged or failing connections.6.10.Excessive cutting and notching. Exceptions: 1.Where substantiated otherwise by an approved method2.Demolition of unsafe conditions shall be permitted where approved by the code official.
Section 307 Handrails and Guardrails
INSIGHTS
INSIGHTS (2)
307.1 Handrails.
CDP
INSIGHTS
Stairs having more than four risers shall have a handrail on one side of the stair. INSIGHTS (2)
307.1.1 Height.
INSIGHTS
Handrails shall be not less than 30 inches (762 mm) in height or more than 42 inches (1067 mm) in height measured vertically above the nosing of the tread or above the finished floor of the landing or walking surfaces.
INSIGHTS (2)
307.2 Guards.
INSIGHTS
Guards shall be provided along open-sided walking surfaces, including balconies, porches, decks, stairs, ramps and landings, that are more than 30 inches (762 mm) above the floor or grade below.
Exception:
Guards shall not be required where exempted by the adopted building code.
INSIGHTS (2)
307.2.1 Height.
CDP
INSIGHTS
Guards shall be not less than 30 inches (762 mm) high.
INSIGHTS (2)
Section 308 Rubbish and Garbage
308.1 Accumulation of rubbish or garbage.
Exterior property and premises, and the interior of every structure, shall be free from any accumulation of rubbish or
garbage.
308.2 Disposal of rubbish.
Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of all rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing such rubbish in approved containers.
308.2.1 Rubbish storage facilities.
The owner of every occupied premises shall supply approved covered containers for rubbish, and the owner of the premises shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
308.2.2 Refrigerators.
Refrigerators and similar equipment not in operation shall not be discarded, abandoned or stored on premises without first removing the doors.
308.3 Disposal of garbage.
Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of garbage in a clean and sanitary manner by placing such garbage in an approved garbage disposal facility or approved garbage containers.
308.3.1 Garbage facilities.
The owner of every dwelling shall supply one of the following: an approved mechanical food waste grinder in each dwelling unit; an approved incinerator unit in the structure available to the occupants in each dwelling unit; or an approved leakproof, covered, outside garbage container.
308.3.2 Containers.
The operator of every establishment producing garbage shall provide, and at all times cause to be utilized, approved leakproof containers provided with close-fitting covers for the storage of such materials until removed from the premises for disposal.
Section 309 Pest Elimination
309.1 Infestation.
Structures shall be kept free from insect and rodent infestation. Structures in which insects or rodents are found shall be promptly exterminated by approved processes that will not be injurious to human health. After pest elimination, proper precautions shall be taken to prevent reinfestation.
309.2 Owner.
The owner of any structure shall be responsible for pest elimination within the structure prior to renting or leasing the structure.
309.3 Single occupant.
The occupant of a one-family dwelling or of a single-tenant nonresidential structure shall be responsible for pest elimination on the premises.
309.4 Multiple occupancy.
CDP
The owner of a structure containing two or more dwelling units, a multiple occupancy, a rooming house or a nonresidential structure shall be responsible for pest elimination in the public or shared areas of the structure and exterior property. If infestation is caused by failure of an occupant to prevent such infestation in the area occupied, the occupant and owner shall be responsible for pest elimination.
309.5 Occupant.
The occupant of any structure shall be responsible for the continued rodent and pest-free condition of the structure.Exception: Where the infestations are caused by defects in the structure, the owner shall be responsible for pest elimination.
Section 310 Accessibility
310.1 General.
CDP
A facility that is required to be accessible shall be maintained accessible during occupancy.
310.1.1 Maintenance.
CDP
The accessible features of a facility shall be maintained in good repair, in a clean, structurally sound and sanitary condition, and free from impediments to accessibility.
Section 311 Storm Shelters
CDP
311.1 General.
CDP
Community storm shelters shall be evaluated, maintained and repaired in accordance with this section and ICC 500.
311.2 Evaluation.
CDP
Community storm shelters shall be evaluated annually and when requested by the authority having jurisdiction in accordance with ICC 500.
311.3 Maintenance and repairs.
CDP
Community storm shelters shall be maintained in an operable condition. All structural and operational elements shall be repaired or replaced in accordance with ICC 500 where damaged or found to be inoperable.
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
I-Codes • 2024
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.