======================================================================
Chapter 2 Definitions
======================================================================

Chapter 1 Scope And Administration - International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC)
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2024
International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC)
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2024 International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC) 2024 International Energy Conservation Code (IECC) 2024 International Existing Building Code (IEBC) 2024 International Fuel Gas Code (IFGC) 2024 International Mechanical Code (IMC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
I-Codes
/
2024 International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC)
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
2024 International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC)
favorite_border
Version:
Sep 2025
Contents
Notes
Insights
Overview
Copyright
Preface
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Part 1—Scope and Application Section 101 Scope and General Requirements
Section 102 Applicability
Part 2—Administration and Enforcement Section 103 Code Compliance Agency
Section 104 Fees
Section 105 Duties and Powers of the Code Official
Section 106 Means of Appeals
Section 107 Violations
Section 108 Stop Work Order
Section 109 Unsafe Structures and Equipment
Section 110 Emergency Measures
Section 111 Demolition
Chapter 2 Definitions
Chapter 3 General Requirements
Chapter 4 Light, Ventilation and Occupancy Limitations
Chapter 5 Plumbing Facilities and Fixture Requirements
Chapter 6 Mechanical and Electrical Requirements
Chapter 7 Fire Safety Requirements
Chapter 8 Referenced Standards
Appendix A Boarding Standard
Appendix B Board of Appeals
Index
Content Updates—Version 3
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
User notes:
About this chapter: Chapter 1 establishes the limits of applicability of the code and describes how the code is to be applied and enforced. Chapter 1 is in two parts: Part 1—Scope and Application (Sections 101 and 102) and Part 2—Administration and Enforcement (Sections 103–111). Section 101 identifies which buildings and structures come under its purview and references other I-Codes as applicable.This code is intended to be adopted as a legally enforceable document and it cannot be effective without adequate provisions for its administration and enforcement. The provisions of Chapter 1 establish the authority and duties of the code official appointed by the authority having jurisdiction and also establish the rights and privileges of the property owner and building occupants.Sections 105 and 106 have been extensively reorganized for the 2024 edition. For complete information, see the Relocations table in the Preface information of this code. QR code use: A QR code is placed at the beginning of any section that has undergone technical revision. To see those revisions, scan the QR code with a smart device or enter the 7-digit code beneath the QR code at the end of the following URL: qr.iccsafe.org/ (see Formatting Changes to the 2024 International Codes for more information).
Part 1—Scope and ApplicationSection 101 Scope and General Requirements
[A] 101.1 Title.
These regulations shall be known as the Property Maintenance Code of
[NAME OF JURISDICTION], hereinafter referred to as “this code.”
[A] 101.2 Scope.
The provisions of this code shall apply to all existing residential and nonresidential structures and all existing premises and constitute minimum requirements and standards for premises, structures, equipment and facilities for light, ventilation, space, heating, sanitation, protection from the elements, a reasonable level of safety from fire and other hazards, and for a reasonable level of sanitary maintenance; the responsibility of owners, an owner’s authorized agent, operators and occupants; the occupancy of existing structures and premises, and for administration, enforcement and penalties.
101.2.1 Appendices.
INSIGHTS
Provisions in the appendices shall not apply unless specifically adopted.
INSIGHTS (2)
[A] 101.3 Purpose.
The purpose of this code is to establish minimum requirements to provide a reasonable level of health, safety, property protection and general welfare insofar as they are affected by the continued
occupancy and maintenance of structures and premises. Existing structures and premises that do not comply with these provisions shall be altered or repaired to provide a reasonable minimum level of health, safety and general welfare as required herein.
[A] 101.4 Severability.
If a section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this code is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this code.
Section 102 Applicability
[A] 102.1 General.
Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall govern. Where differences occur between provisions of this code and the referenced standards, the provisions of this code shall apply. Where, in a specific case, different sections of this code specify different requirements, the most restrictive shall govern.
102.2 Maintenance.
Equipment, systems, devices and safeguards required by this code or a previous regulation or code under which the structure or premises was constructed, altered or repaired shall be maintained in good working order. An owner, owner’s authorized agent, operator or occupant shall not cause any service, facility, equipment or utility that is required under this section to be removed from, shut off from or discontinued for any occupied dwelling, except for such temporary interruption as necessary while repairs or alterations are in progress. The requirements of this code are not intended to provide the basis for removal or abrogation of fire protection and safety systems and devices in existing structures. Except as otherwise specified herein, the owner or the owner’s authorized agent shall be responsible for the maintenance of buildings, structures and
premises.
[A] 102.3 Application of other codes.
CDP
Repairs, additions or alterations to a structure, or changes of occupancy, shall be done in accordance with the procedures and provisions of the International Building Code, International Existing Building Code, International Energy Conservation Code, International Fire Code, International Fuel Gas Code, International Mechanical Code, International Residential Code, International Plumbing Code and NFPA 70. Nothing in this code shall be construed to cancel, modify or set aside any provision of the International Zoning Code.
[A] 102.4 Existing remedies.
The provisions in this code shall not be construed to abolish or impair existing remedies of the jurisdiction or its officers or agencies relating to the removal or demolition of any structure that is dangerous, unsafe or insanitary.
[A] 102.5 Workmanship.
CDP
Repairs, maintenance work, alterations or installations that are caused directly or indirectly by the enforcement of this code shall be executed and installed in a workmanlike manner and installed in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions.
102.6 Structural analysis.
Where structural analysis is used to assess a potentially unsafe structural condition, the analysis shall be permitted to use nominal strengths, nominal loads, load effects, required strengths and limit states in accordance with the requirements under which the structure was constructed or in accordance with any subsequent requirement.
[A] 102.7 Historic buildings.
The provisions of this code shall not be mandatory for existing buildings or structures designated as historic buildings where such buildings or structures are judged by the code official to be safe and in the public interest of health, safety and welfare.
[A] 102.8 Referenced codes and standards.
The codes and standards referenced in this code shall be those that are listed in Chapter 8 and considered part of the requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each such reference and as further regulated in Sections 102.8.1 and 102.8.2.Exception: Where enforcement of a code provision would violate the conditions of the listing of the equipment or appliance, the conditions of the listing shall apply.
[A] 102.8.1 Conflicts.
Where conflicts occur between provisions of this code and the referenced standards, the provisions of this code shall apply.
[A] 102.8.2 Provisions in referenced codes and standards.
Where the extent of the reference to a referenced code or standard includes subject matter that is within the scope of this code, the provisions of this code, as applicable, shall take precedence over the provisions in the referenced code or standard.
[A] 102.9 Requirements not covered by code.
Requirements necessary for the strength, stability or proper operation of an existing fixture, structure or equipment, or for the public safety, health and general welfare, not specifically covered by this code, shall be determined by the code official.
[A] 102.10 Application of references.
References to chapter or section numbers, or to provisions not specifically identified by number, shall be construed to refer to such chapter, section or provision of this code.
[A] 102.11 Other laws.
CDP
The provisions of this code shall not be deemed to nullify any provisions of local, state or federal law.
Part 2—Administration and EnforcementSection 103 Code Compliance Agency
[A] 103.1 Creation of agency.
The
[INSERT NAME OF DEPARTMENT]
is hereby created and the official in charge thereof shall be known as the code official. The function of the agency shall be the implementation, administration and enforcement of the provisions of this code.
[A] 103.2 Appointment.
The code official shall be appointed by the chief appointing authority of the jurisdiction.
[A] 103.3 Deputies.
In accordance with the prescribed procedures of this jurisdiction and with the concurrence of the appointing authority, the code official shall have the authority to appoint a deputy code official, other related technical officers, inspectors and other employees. Such employees shall have powers as delegated by the code official.
Section 104 Fees
[A] 104.1 Fees.
The fees for activities and services performed by the department in carrying out its responsibilities under this code shall be as established by the applicable governing authority.
104.2 Refunds.
The code official is authorized to establish a refund policy.
Section 105 Duties and Powers of the Code Official
[A] 105.1 General.
The code official is hereby authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this
code.➡
[A] 105.2 Determination of compliance.
The code official shall have the authority to determine compliance with this code, to render interpretations of this code and to adopt policies and procedures in order to clarify the application of this code’s provisions. Such interpretations, policies and procedures:
1. Shall be in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code.
2. Shall not have the effect of waiving requirements specifically provided for in this code or other applicable codes and ordinances.
[A] 105.2.1 Technical assistance.
To determine compliance with this code, the code official is authorized to require the owner or owner’s authorized agent to provide a technical opinion and report.
[A] 105.2.1.1 Cost.
A technical opinion and report shall be provided without charge to the jurisdiction.
[A] 105.2.1.2 Preparer qualifications.
The technical opinion and report shall be prepared by a qualified engineer, specialist, laboratory or specialty organization acceptable to the code official. The code official is authorized to require design submittals to be prepared by, and bear the stamp of, a registered design professional.
[A] 105.2.1.3 Content.
The technical opinion and report shall analyze the properties of the design, operation or use of the building or premises and the facilities and appurtenances situated thereon to identify and propose necessary recommendations.
[A] 105.2.1.4 Test methods.
Where there is insufficient evidence of compliance with the provisions of this code, the code official shall have the authority to require tests as evidence of compliance. Test methods shall be as specified in this code or by other recognized test standards. In the absence of recognized test standards, the code official shall approve the testing procedures. Such tests shall be performed by a party acceptable to the code official.
[A] 105.2.2 Alternative materials, design and methods of construction and equipment.
The provisions of this code are not intended to prevent the installation of any material or to prohibit any design or method of construction not specifically prescribed by this code, provided that any such alternative is not specifically prohibited by this code and has been approved. Exception:
Performance-based alternative materials, designs or methods of construction and equipment complying with the
International Code Council Performance Code.
[A] 105.2.2.1 Approval authority.
An alternative material, design or method of construction shall be approved where the code official finds that the proposed alternative is satisfactory and complies with Sections 105.2.2 through
105.2.2.7, as applicable.
[A] 105.2.2.2 Application and disposition.
Where required, a request to use an alternative material, design or method of construction shall be submitted in writing to the code official for approval. Where the alternative material, design or method of construction is not approved, the code official shall respond in writing, stating the reasons the alternative was not approved.
[A] 105.2.2.3 Compliance with code intent.
An alternative material, design or method of construction shall comply with the intent of the provisions of this code.
[A] 105.2.2.4 Equivalency criteria.
An alternative material, design or method of construction shall, for the purpose intended, be not less than the equivalent of that prescribed in this code with respect to all of the following, as applicable: 1.Quality. 2.Strength. 3.Effectiveness. 4.Durability. 5.Safety, other than fire safety. 6.Fire safety.
[A] 105.2.2.5 Tests.
Tests conducted to demonstrate equivalency in support of an alternative material, design or method of construction application shall be of a scale that is sufficient to predict performance of the end use configuration. Tests shall be performed by a party acceptable to the code official.
[A] 105.2.2.5.1 Fire tests.
Tests conducted to demonstrate equivalent fire safety in support of an alternative material, design or method of construction application shall be of a scale that is sufficient to predict fire safety performance of the end use configuration. Tests shall be performed by a party acceptable to the building official.
[A] 105.2.2.6 Reports.
Supporting documentation, where necessary to assist in the approval of materials or assemblies not specifically provided for in this code, shall comply with Sections 105.2.2.6.1 and
105.2.2.6.2.
[A] 105.2.2.6.1 Evaluation reports.
Evaluation reports shall be issued by an approved agency and use of the evaluation report shall require approval by the code official for the installation. The alternate material, design or method of construction and product evaluated shall be within the scope of the code official’s recognition of the approved agency. Criteria used for the evaluation shall be identified within the report and, where required, provided to the code official.
[A] 105.2.2.6.2 Other reports.
Reports not complying with Section 105.2.2.6.1 shall describe criteria, including but not limited to any referenced testing or analysis, used to determine compliance with code intent and justify code equivalence. The report shall be prepared by a qualified engineer, specialist, laboratory or specialty organization acceptable to the building official. The code official is authorized to require design submittals to be prepared by, and bear the stamp of, a registered design professional.
[A] 105.2.2.7 Peer review.
The code official is authorized to require submittal of a peer review report in con-junction with a request to use an alternative material, design or method of construction, prepared by a peer reviewer that is approved by the code official.
[A] 105.2.3 Modifications.
Where there are practical difficulties involved in carrying out the provisions of this code, the code official shall have the authority to grant modifications for individual cases, provided that the code official shall first find that special individual reasons make the strict letter of this code impractical, and that the modification is in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code and that such modification does not lessen health, accessibility, life and fire safety or structural requirements. The details of the written request for and action granting modifications shall be recorded and entered in the files of the department of building safety.
[A] 105.3 Right of entry.
Where it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of this code, or where the code official has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in a structure or on any premises a condition that is contrary to or in violation of this code that makes the structure or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the code official is authorized to enter the
structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect or perform the duties imposed by this code. If such structure or premises is occupied, the code official shall present credentials to the occupant and request entry. If such structure or premises is unoccupied, the code official shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner, owner’s authorized agent or other person having charge or control of the structure or premises and request entry. If entry is refused, the code official shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
105.3.1 Warrant.
Where the code official has first obtained a proper inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, an owner, the owner’s authorized agent, occupant or person having charge, care or control of the structure or premises shall not fail or neglect, after proper a request is made as herein provided, to permit entry therein by the code official for the purposes of inspection and examination pursuant to this code.
[A] 105.4 Identification.
The code official shall carry proper identification when inspecting structures or premises in the performance of duties under this code.
[A] 105.5 Notices and orders.
The code official shall issue all necessary notices or orders to ensure compliance with this code, in accordance with Section 107.
[A] 105.6 Official records.
The code official shall keep official records as required by Sections 105.6.1 through 105.6.5. Such official records shall be retained for not less than 5 years or for as long as the building or structure to which such records relate remains in existence, unless otherwise provided by other regulations.
[A] 105.6.1 Approvals.
A record of approvals shall be maintained by the code official and shall be available for public inspection during business hours in accordance with applicable laws.
[A] 105.6.2 Inspections.
The code official shall have the authority to conduct inspections, or shall accept reports of inspection by approved agencies or individuals. Reports of such inspections shall be in writing and be certified by a responsible officer of such approved agency or by the responsible individual. The code official shall keep a record of each inspection made, including notices and orders issued, showing the findings and disposition of each.
[A] 105.6.3 Code alternatives and modifications.
Application for alternative materials, design and methods of construction and equipment in accordance with Section 105.2.2; modifications in accordance with Section 105.2.3; and documentation of the final decision of the code official for either shall be in writing and shall be retained in the official records.
[A] 105.6.4 Tests.
The code official shall keep a record of tests conducted to comply with Sections 105.2.1.4 and 105.2.2.5.
[A] 105.6.5 Fees.
The code official shall keep a record of fees collected and refunded in accordance with Section 104.
[A] 105.7 Liability.
The code official, member of the board of appeals or employee charged with the enforcement of this code, while acting for the jurisdiction, in good faith and without malice in the discharge of the duties required by this code or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not thereby be rendered personally liable, either civilly or criminally, and is hereby relieved from personal liability for any damage accruing to persons or property as a result of an act or by reason of any act or omission in the discharge of official duties.
[A] 105.7.1 Legal defense.
Any suit or criminal complaint instituted against any officer or employee because of an act performed by that officer or employee in the lawful discharge of duties and under the provisions of this code or other laws or ordinances implemented through the enforcement of this code shall be defended by the legal representative of the jurisdiction until the final termination of the proceedings. The code official or any subordinate shall not be liable for costs in an action, suit or proceeding that is instituted in pursuance of the provisions of this code.
[A] 105.8 Approved materials and equipment.
Materials, equipment and devices approved by the code official shall be constructed and installed in accordance with such approval.
[A] 105.8.1 Materials and equipment reuse.
Materials, equipment and devices shall not be reused unless such elements are in good working condition and approved.➡
Section 106 Means of Appeals
106.1 General.
In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations made by the code official relative to the application and interpretation of this code, there shall be and is hereby created a board of appeals. The board of appeals shall be appointed by the applicable governing authority and shall hold office at its pleasure. The board shall adopt rules of procedure for conducting its business and shall render all decisions and findings in writing to the appellant with a duplicate copy to the code official.
[A] 106.2 Limitations of authority.
An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply or an equivalent or better form of construction is proposed. The board shall not have authority to waive requirements of this code.
106.3 Qualifications.
The board of appeals shall consist of members who are qualified by experience and training on matters pertaining to the provisions of this code and are not employees of the jurisdiction.
106.4 Administration.
The code official shall take action without delay in accordance with the decision of the board.➡
Section 107 Violations
[A] 107.1 Unlawful acts.
It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to be in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of this code.
[A] 107.2 Notice of violation.
The code official shall serve a notice of violation or order in accordance with Section 109.4.
[A] 107.3 Prosecution of violation.
Any person failing to comply with a notice of violation or order served in accordance with Section 109.4 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor or civil infraction as determined by the local municipality, and the violation shall be deemed a strict liability offense. If the notice of violation is not complied with, the code official shall institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to require the removal or termination of the unlawful
occupancy of the structure in violation of the provisions of this code or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto. Any action taken by the authority having jurisdiction on such premises shall be charged against the real estate upon which the structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate.
[A] 107.4 Violation penalties.
Any person who shall violate a provision of this code, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof, shall be prosecuted within the limits provided by state or local laws. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
[A] 107.5 Abatement of violation.
The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude the legal officer of the jurisdiction from instituting appropriate action to restrain, correct or abate a violation, or to prevent illegal
occupancy of a building, structure or premises, or to stop an illegal act, conduct, business or utilization of the building, structure or premises.➡
Section 108 Stop Work Order
[A] 108.1 Authority.
Where the code official finds any work regulated by this code being performed in a manner contrary to the provisions of this code or in an unsafe manner, the code official is authorized to issue a stop work order.
[A] 108.2 Issuance.
The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, to the owner’s authorized agent, or to the person performing the work. Upon issuance of a stop work order, the cited work shall immediately cease. The stop work order shall state the reason for the order and the conditions under which the cited work is authorized to resume.
[A] 108.3 Emergencies.
Where an emergency exists, the code official shall not be required to give a written notice prior to stopping the work.
[A] 108.4 Failure to comply.
Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to fines established by the authority having jurisdiction.
Section 109 Unsafe Structures and Equipment
109.1 Unsafe conditions.
When a structure or equipment is found by the code official to be unsafe, or when a structure is found unfit for human occupancy, or is found unlawful, such structure shall be condemned pursuant to the provisions of this code.
109.1.1 Unsafe structures.
An unsafe structure is one that is found to be hazardous to the life, health, property or safety of the public or the occupants of the structure by not providing minimum safeguards to protect or warn occupants in the event of fire, or because such structure contains unsafe equipment or is dangerous.
109.1.2 Unsafe equipment.
Unsafe equipment includes any boiler, heating equipment, elevator, moving stairway, electrical wiring or device, flammable liquid containers or other equipment on the premises or within the structure that is in such disrepair or condition that such equipment is a hazard to life, health, property or safety of the public or occupants of the premises or structure.
109.1.3 Structure unfit for human occupancy.
A structure is unfit for human occupancy whenever the code official finds that such structure is unsafe, unlawful or, because of the degree to which the structure is in disrepair or lacks maintenance, is insanitary, vermin or rat infested, contains filth and contamination, or lacks ventilation, illumination, sanitary or heating facilities or other essential equipment required by this code, or because the location of the structure constitutes a hazard to the
occupants of the structure or to the public.
109.1.4 Unlawful structure.
An unlawful structure is one found in whole or in part to be occupied by more persons than permitted under this code, or was erected, altered or occupied contrary to law.
109.1.5 Hazardous structure or premises.
For the purpose of this code, any structure or premises that has any or all of the conditions or defects described as follows shall be considered to be hazardous:1.Any door, aisle, passageway, stairway, exit or other means of egress that does not conform to the approved building or fire code of the jurisdiction as related to the requirements for existing buildings.2.The walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway, exit or other means of egress is so warped, worn loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as to not provide safe and adequate means of egress.3.Any building, structure or portion thereof that is dangerous.➡
4. The building or structure, or any portion thereof, is clearly unsafe for its use and occupancy. 5. The building or structure is neglected, damaged, dilapidated, unsecured or abandoned so as to become an attractive nuisance to children who might play in the building or structure to their danger, becomes a harbor for vagrants, criminals or immoral persons, or enables persons to resort to the building or structure for committing a nuisance or an unlawful act. 6. Any building or structure has been constructed, exists or is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition applicable to such building or structure provided by the approved building or fire code of the jurisdiction, or of any law or ordinance to such an extent as to present either a substantial risk of fire, building collapse or any other threat to life and safety. 7. A building or structure, used or intended to be used for dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay, damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, ventilation, mechanical or plumbing system, or otherwise, is determined by the code official to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such a condition that is likely to cause sickness or disease. 8. Any building or structure, because of a lack of sufficient or proper fire-resistance-rated construction, fire protection systems, electrical system, fuel connections, mechanical system, plumbing system or other cause, is determined by the code official to be a threat to life or health. 9. Any portion of a building remains on a site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever any building or
structure is abandoned so as to constitute such building or portion thereof as an attractive nuisance or hazard to the public.
109.2 Closing of vacant structures.
If the structure is vacant and unfit for human habitation and occupancy, and is not in danger of structural collapse, the code official is authorized to post a placard of condemnation on the premises and order the structure closed up so as not to be an attractive nuisance. Upon failure of the owner or owner’s authorized agent to close up the premises within the time specified in the order, the code official shall cause the premises to be closed and secured through any available public agency or by contract or arrangement by private persons and the cost thereof shall be charged against the real estate upon which the structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate and shall be collected by any other legal resource.
109.2.1 Authority to disconnect service utilities.
The code official shall have the authority to authorize disconnection of utility service to the building, structure or system regulated by this code and the referenced codes and standards set forth in Section 102.8 in case of emergency where necessary to eliminate an immediate hazard to life or property or where such utility connection has been made without approval. The code official shall notify the serving utility and, whenever possible, the owner or owner’s authorized agent and occupant of the building, structure or service system of the decision to disconnect prior to taking such action. If not notified prior to disconnection the owner, owner’s authorized agent or occupant of the building structure or service system shall be notified in writing as soon as practical thereafter.
109.3 Record.
The code official shall cause a report to be filed on an unsafe condition. The report shall state the occupancy of the structure and the nature of the unsafe condition.
109.4 Notice.
Whenever the code official determines that there has been a violation of this code or has grounds to believe that a violation has occurred, notice shall be given in the manner prescribed in Sections 109.4.1 and 109.4.2 to the
owner or the owner’s authorized agent, for the violation as specified in this code. Notices for condemnation procedures shall comply with this section.
109.4.1 Form.
Such notice shall be in accordance with all of the following:1.Be in writing.2.Include a description of the real estate sufficient for identification.3.Include a statement of the violation or violations and why the notice is being issued.4.Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time to make the repairs and improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or structure into compliance with the provisions of this code.5.Inform the property owner or owner’s authorized agent of the right to appeal.6.Include a statement of the right to file a lien in accordance with Section 107.3.
109.4.2 Method of service.
Such notice shall be deemed to be properly served where a copy thereof is served in accordance with one of the following methods:1.A copy is delivered personally.2.A copy is sent by certified or registered mail addressed to the owner at the last known address with the return receipt requested.3.A copy is delivered in any other manner as prescribed by local law. If the certified or registered letter is returned showing that the letter was not delivered, a copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by such notice. Service of such notice in the foregoing manner upon the owner’s agent or upon the person responsible for the structure shall constitute service of notice upon the owner.
109.5 Unauthorized tampering.
Signs, tags or seals posted or affixed by the code official shall not be mutilated, destroyed or tampered with, or removed without authorization from the code official.
109.6 Transfer of ownership.
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling unit or structure who has received a compliance order or upon whom a notice of violation has been served to sell, transfer, mortgage, lease or otherwise dispose of such dwelling unit or structure to another until the provisions of the compliance order or notice of violation have been complied with, or until such owner or the owner’s authorized agent shall first furnish the grantee, transferee, mortgagee or lessee a true copy of any compliance order or notice of violation issued by the code official and shall furnish to the code official a signed and notarized statement from the grantee, transferee, mortgagee or lessee, acknowledging the receipt of such compliance order or notice of violation and fully accepting the responsibility without condition for making the corrections or repairs required by such compliance order or notice of violation.
109.7 Placarding.
Upon failure of the owner, owner’s authorized agent or person responsible to comply with the notice provisions within the time given, the code official shall post on the premises or on defective equipment a placard bearing the word “Condemned” and a statement of the penalties provided for occupying the
premises, operating the equipment or removing the placard. Such notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by such notice. If the notice pertains to equipment, it shall be placed on the condemned equipment.
109.7.1 Placard removal.
The code official shall remove the condemnation placard whenever the defect or defects upon which the condemnation and placarding action were based have been eliminated. Any person who defaces or removes a condemnation placard without the approval of the code official shall be subject to the penalties provided by this code.
109.8 Prohibited occupancy.
Any occupied structure condemned and placarded by the code official shall be vacated as ordered by the code official. Any person who shall occupy a placarded premises or shall operate placarded equipment, and any owner or owner's authorized agent who shall let anyone occupy a placarded premises or operate placarded equipment shall be liable for the penalties provided by this code.
109.9 Restoration or abatement.
The structure or equipment determined to be unsafe by the code official is permitted to be restored to a safe condition. The owner,
owner’s authorized agent, operator or occupant of a structure, premises or equipment deemed unsafe by the code official shall abate or cause to be abated or corrected such unsafe conditions either by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or other approved corrective action. To the extent that repairs, alterations, or additions are made or a change of occupancy occurs during the restoration of the structure, such repairs, alterations, additions, or change of occupancy shall comply with the requirements of the
International Existing Building Code.
Section 110 Emergency Measures
110.1 Imminent danger.
When, in the opinion of the code official, there is imminent danger of failure or collapse of a building or structure that endangers life, or when any structure or part of a structure has fallen and life is endangered by the occupation of the structure, or when there is actual or potential danger to the building occupants or those in the proximity of any structure because of explosives, explosive fumes or vapors or the presence of toxic fumes, gases or materials, or operation of defective or dangerous equipment, the code official is hereby authorized and empowered to order and require the occupants to vacate the premises forthwith. The code official shall cause to be posted at each entrance to such structure a notice reading as follows: “This Structure Is Unsafe and Its Occupancy Has Been Prohibited by the Code Official.” It shall be unlawful for any person to enter such structure except for the purpose of securing the structure, making the required repairs, removing the hazardous condition or of demolishing the same.
110.2 Temporary safeguards.
Notwithstanding other provisions of this code, whenever, in the opinion of the code official, there is imminent danger due to an unsafe condition, the code official shall order the necessary work to be done, including the boarding up of openings, to render such structure temporarily safe whether or not the legal procedure herein described has been instituted; and shall cause such other action to be taken as the code official deems necessary to meet such emergency.
110.3 Closing streets.
When necessary for public safety, the code official shall temporarily close structures and close, or order the authority having jurisdiction to close, sidewalks, streets, public ways and places adjacent to unsafe structures, and prohibit the same from being utilized.
110.4 Emergency repairs.
For the purposes of this section, the code official shall employ the necessary labor and materials to perform the required work as expeditiously as possible.
110.5 Costs of emergency repairs.
Costs incurred in the performance of emergency work shall be paid by the jurisdiction. The legal counsel of the jurisdiction shall institute appropriate action against the owner of the
premises or owner’s authorized agent where the unsafe structure is or was located for the recovery of such costs.
110.6 Hearing.
Any person ordered to take emergency measures shall comply with such order forthwith. Any affected person shall thereafter, upon petition directed to the appeals board, be afforded a hearing as described in this code.
Section 111 Demolition
111.1 General.
When the code official determines any structure is so old, dilapidated or has become so out of repair and is dangerous, unsafe, insanitary and otherwise unfit for human habitation or occupancy the code official can order either of the following:
1.
The code official is permitted to authorize the owner or owner’s authorized agent to make the structure safe by repairs in order to make the structure safe and sanitary. Where there has been a cessation of construction repairs of any structure for a period of more than 2 years the structure will be ordered demolished and removed.
2. The code official is permitted to order the owner or owner’s authorized agent to demolish and remove any such structure.
111.2 Notices and orders.
Notices and orders shall comply with Section 109.4.
111.3 Failure to comply.
If the owner of a premises or owner’s authorized agent fails to comply with a demolition order within the time prescribed, the code official shall cause the structure to be demolished and removed, either through an available public agency or by contract or arrangement with private persons, and the cost of such demolition and removal shall be charged against the real estate upon which the structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate.
111.4 Salvage materials.
Where any structure has been ordered demolished and removed, the governing body or other designated officer under said contract or arrangement aforesaid shall have the right to sell the salvage and valuable materials. The net proceeds of such sale, after deducting the expenses of such demolition and removal, shall be promptly remitted with a report of such sale or transaction, including the items of expense and the amounts deducted, for the person who is entitled thereto, subject to any order of a court. If such a surplus does not remain to be turned over, the report shall so state.
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
I-Codes • 2024
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.