======================================================================
Chapter 2 Definitions
======================================================================

Chapter 1 Scope And Administration - International Existing Building Code (IEBC)
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2024
International Existing Building Code (IEBC)
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2024 International Existing Building Code (IEBC) 2024 International Fuel Gas Code (IFGC) 2024 International Mechanical Code (IMC) 2024 International Plumbing Code (IPC) 2024 International Fire Code (IFC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
I-Codes
/
2024 International Existing Building Code (IEBC)
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
2024 International Existing Building Code (IEBC)
favorite_border
Version:
Jul 2024
Contents
Notes
Insights
Overview
Copyright
Preface
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Part 1—Scope and Application Section 101 Scope and General Requirements
Section 102 Applicability
Part 2—Administration and Enforcement Section 103 Code Compliance Agency
Section 104 Duties and Powers of Code Official
Section 105 Permits
Section 106 Construction Documents
Section 107 Temporary Uses, Equipment and Systems
Section 108 Fees
Section 109 Inspections
Section 110 Certificate of Occupancy
Section 111 Service Utilities
Section 112 Means of Appeals
Section 113 Violations
Section 114 Stop Work Order
Section 115 Unsafe Structures and Equipment
Section 116 Emergency Measures
Section 117 Demolition
Chapter 2 Definitions
Chapter 3 Provisions for All Compliance Methods
Chapter 4 Repairs
Chapter 5 Prescriptive Compliance Method
Chapter 6 Classification of Work
Chapter 7 Alterations—Level 1
Chapter 8 Alterations—Level 2
Chapter 9 Alterations—Level 3
Chapter 10 Change of Occupancy
Chapter 11 Additions
Chapter 12 Historic Buildings
Chapter 13 Performance Compliance Methods
Chapter 14 Relocated or Moved Buildings
Chapter 15 Construction Safeguards
Chapter 16 Referenced Standards
Appendix A Guidelines for the Seismic Retrofit of Existing Buildings
Appendix B Supplementary Accessibility Requirements for Existing Buildings and Facilities
Appendix C Guidelines for the Wind Retrofit of Existing Buildings
Appendix D Board of Appeals
Appendix E Temporary Emergency Uses
Resource a Guidelines on Fire Ratings of Archaic Materials and Assemblies
Index
Content Updates—Version 2
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
User notes:
About this chapter:
Chapter 1 establishes the limits of applicability of the code and describes how the code is to be applied and enforced. Chapter 1 is in two parts: Part 1—Scope and Administration (Sections 101–102) and Part 2—Administration and Enforcement (Sections 103–117). Section 101 identifies which buildings and structures come under its purview and references other I-Codes®as applicable.This code is intended to be adopted as a legally enforceable document, and it cannot be effective without adequate provisions for its administration and enforcement. The provisions of Chapter 1 establish the authority and duties of the code official appointed by the authority having jurisdiction and also establish the rights and privileges of the registered design professional, contractor and property owner.Section 104 was revised for the 2024 edition. For complete information, see the Relocations table in the Preface of this code. QR code use:
A QR code is placed at the beginning of any section that has undergone technical revision. To see those revisions, scan the QR code with a smart device or enter the 7-digit code beneath the QR code at the end of the following URL: qr.iccsafe.org/ (see Formatting Changes to the 2024 International Codes for more information).
Part 1—Scope and ApplicationSection 101 Scope and General Requirements
[A] 101.1 Title.
These regulations shall be known as the Existing Building Code of [NAME OF JURISDICTION], herein-after referred to as “this code.”
[A] 101.2 Scope.
CDP
The provisions of this code shall apply to the repair, alteration, change of occupancy, addition to and relocation of existing buildings.Exception: Detached one- and two-family dwellings and townhouses not more than three stories above grade plane in height with a separate means of egress, and their accessory structures not more than three stories above grade plane in height, shall comply with this code or the International Residential Code.
[A] 101.2.1 Appendices.
INSIGHTS
Provisions in the appendices shall not apply unless specifically adopted or referenced.
INSIGHTS (2)
101.2.2 Application of fire code.
Where work regulated by this code is also regulated by the construction requirements for existing buildings in Chapter 11 of the International Fire Code, such work shall comply with applicable requirements in both codes.
[A] 101.3 Purpose.
The intent of this code is to provide flexibility to permit the use of alternative approaches to achieve compliance with minimum requirements to provide a reasonable level of safety, health, property protection and general welfare insofar as they are affected by the repair, alteration, change of occupancy, addition and relocation of existing buildings.
[A] 101.4 Applicability.
CDP
This code shall apply to the repair, alteration, change of occupancy, addition and relocation of existing buildings, regardless of occupancy, subject to the criteria of Sections 101.4.1 and 101.4.2.
[A] 101.4.1 Buildings not previously occupied.
A building or portion of a building that has not been previously occupied or used for its intended purpose, in accordance with the laws in existence at the time of its completion, shall be permitted to comply with the provisions of the laws in existence at the time of its original permit unless such permit has expired. Subsequent permits shall comply with the International Building Code or International Residential Code, as applicable, for new construction.
[A] 101.4.2 Buildings previously occupied.
The legal occupancy of any building existing on the date of adoption of this code shall be permitted to continue without change, except as is specifically covered in this code, the International Fire Code, or the International Property Maintenance Code, or as is deemed necessary by the code official for the general safety and welfare of the occupants and the public.
[A] 101.5 Safeguards during construction.
Construction work covered in this code, including any related demolition, shall comply with the requirements of Chapter 15.
[A] 101.6 Correction of violations of other codes.
INSIGHTS
Repairs or alterations mandated by any property, housing or fire safety maintenance code, or mandated by any licensing rule or ordinance adopted pursuant to law, shall conform only to the requirements of that code, rule or ordinance, and shall not be required to conform to this code unless the code requiring such repair or
alteration so provides. INSIGHTS (2)
Section 102 Applicability
[A] 102.1 General.
Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall be applicable. Where, in any specific case, different sections of this code specify different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most restrictive shall govern.
[A] 102.2 Other laws.
CDP
The provisions of this code shall not be deemed to nullify any provisions of local, state or federal law.
[A] 102.3 Application of references.
References to chapter or section numbers or to provisions not specifically identified by number shall be construed to refer to such chapter, section or provision of this code.
[A] 102.4 Referenced codes and standards.
The codes and standards referenced in this code shall be considered part of the requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each such reference and as further regulated in Sections 102.4.1 and 102.4.2.Exception: Where enforcement of a code provision would violate the conditions of the listing of the equipment or appliance, the conditions of the listing shall govern.
[A] 102.4.1 Conflicts.
Where conflicts occur between provisions of this code and referenced codes and standards, the provisions of this code shall apply.
[A] 102.4.2 Conflicting provisions.
Where the extent of the reference to a referenced code or standard includes subject matter that is within the scope of this code, the provisions of this code, as applicable, shall take precedence over the provisions in the referenced code or standard.
[A] 102.5 Partial invalidity.
CDP
In the event that any part or provision of this code is held to be illegal or void, this shall not have the effect of making void or illegal any of the other parts or provisions.
Part 2—Administration and EnforcementSection 103 Code Compliance Agency
[A] 103.1 Creation of agency.
The [INSERT NAME OF DEPARTMENT] is hereby created, and the official in charge thereof shall be known as the code official. The function of the agency shall be the implementation, administration and enforcement of the provisions of this code.
[A] 103.2 Appointment.
The code official shall be appointed by the chief appointing authority of the jurisdiction.
[A] 103.3 Deputies.
In accordance with the prescribed procedures of this jurisdiction and with the concurrence of the appointing authority, the code official shall have the authority to appoint a deputy code official, other related technical officers, inspectors and other employees. Such employees shall have powers as delegated by the code official.
Section 104 Duties and Powers of Code Official
[A] 104.1 General.
The code official is hereby authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this code.
[A] 104.2 Determination of compliance.
The code official shall have the authority to determine compliance with this code, to render interpretations of this code and to adopt policies and procedures in order to clarify the application of this code’s provisions. Such interpretations, policies, and procedures:
1. Shall be in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code.
2. Shall not have the effect of waiving requirements specifically provided for in this code.
[A] 104.2.1 Listed compliance.
Where this code or a referenced standard requires equipment, materials, products or services to be listed and a listing standard is specified, the listing shall be based on the specified standard. Where a listing standard is not specified, the listing shall be based on an  approved listing criteria. Listings shall be germane to the provision requiring the listing. Installation shall be in accordance with the listing and the manufacturer’s instructions, and where required to verify compliance, the listing standard and manufacturer’s instructions shall be made available to the code official.
[A] 104.2.2 Technical assistance.
To determine compliance with this code, the code official is authorized to require the owner or owner’s authorized agent to provide a technical opinion and report.
[A] 104.2.2.1 Cost.
A technical opinion and report shall be provided without charge to the jurisdiction.
[A] 104.2.2.2 Preparer qualifications.
The technical opinion and report shall be prepared by a qualified engineer, specialist, laboratory or fire safety specialty organization acceptable to the code official. The code official is authorized to require design submittals to be prepared by, and bear the stamp of, a registered design professional.
[A] 104.2.2.3 Content.
The technical opinion and report shall analyze the properties of the design, operation or use of the building or premises and the facilities and appurtenances situated thereon to identify and propose necessary recommendations.
[A] 104.2.2.4 Tests.
Where there is insufficient evidence of compliance with the provisions of this code, the code official  shall have the authority to require tests as evidence of compliance. Test methods shall be as specified in this code or by other recognized test standards. In the absence of recognized test standards, the code official shall approve the testing procedures. Such tests shall be performed by a party acceptable to the code official.
[A] 104.2.3 Alternative materials, design and methods of construction, and equipment.
The provisions of this code are not intended to prevent the installation of any material or to prohibit any design or method of construction not specifically prescribed by this code, provided that any such alternative is not specifically prohibited by this code and has been approved. Exception:
Performance-based alternative materials, designs or methods of construction and equipment complying with the ICC Performance Code. This exception shall not apply to alternative structural materials or to alternative structural designs.
[A] 104.2.3.1 Approval authority.
An alternative material, design or method of construction shall be approved where the code official finds that the proposed alternative is satisfactory and complies with Sections 104.2.3.2 through
104.2.3.7, as applicable.
[A]
104.2.3.2 Application and disposition.
Where required, a request to use an alternative material, design or method of construction shall be submitted in writing to the code official for approval. Where the alternative material, design or method of construction is not
approved, the code official shall respond in writing, stating the reasons the alternative was not approved.
[A] 104.2.3.3 Compliance with code intent.
An alternative material, design or method of construction shall comply with the intent of the provisions of this code.
[A] 104.2.3.4 Equivalency criteria.
An alternative material, design or method of construction shall, for the purpose intended, be not less than the equivalent of that prescribed in this code with respect to all of the following, as applicable:
1. Quality.
2. Strength.
3. Effectiveness.
4. Durability.
5. Safety, other than fire safety.
6. Fire safety.
[A] 104.2.3.5 Tests.
Tests conducted to demonstrate equivalency in support of an alternative material, design or method of construction application shall be of a scale that is sufficient to predict performance of the end use configuration. Such tests shall be performed by a party acceptable to the code official.
[A] 104.2.3.5.1 Fire tests.
Tests conducted to demonstrate equivalent fire safety in support of an alternative material, design or method of construction application shall be of a scale that is sufficient to predict fire safety performance of the end use configuration. Tests shall be performed by a party acceptable to the code official.
[A] 104.2.3.6 Reports.
Supporting documentation, where necessary to assist in the approval of materials or assemblies not specifically provided for in this code, shall comply with Sections 104.2.3.6.1 and
104.2.3.6.2.
[A] 104.2.3.6.1 Evaluation reports.
Evaluation reports shall be issued by an approved agency, and use of the evaluation report shall require approval by the code official for the installation. The alternate material, design or method of construction and product evaluated shall be within the scope of the code official's recognition of the approved agency. Criteria used for the evaluation shall be identified within the report and, where required, provided to the code official.
[A] 104.2.3.6.2 Other reports.
Reports not complying with Section
104.2.3.6.1 shall describe criteria, including but not limited to any referenced testing or analysis, used to determine compliance with code intent and justify code equivalence. The report shall be prepared by a qualified engineer, specialist, laboratory or fire safety specialty organization acceptable to the code official. The code official is authorized to require design submittals to be prepared by, and bear the stamp of, a registered design professional.
[A] 104.2.3.7 Peer review.
The code official is authorized to require submittal of a peer review report in conjunction with a request to use an alternative material, design or method of construction, prepared by a peer reviewer that is approved by the code official.
[A] 104.2.4 Modifications.
Where there are practical difficulties involved in carrying out the provisions of this code, the code official shall have the authority to grant modifications for individual cases, provided that the code official shall first find that one or more special individual reasons make the strict letter of this code impractical,
and that the modification is in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code and
that such modification does not lessen health, accessibility, life and fire safety, or structural requirements. The details of the written request for and action granting modifications shall be recorded and entered in the files of the department of building safety.
[A] 104.2.4.1 Flood hazard areas.
For existing buildings located in flood hazard areas for which repairs, alterations and additions constitute substantial improvement, the code official shall not grant modifications to provisions related to flood resistance unless a determination is made that:1.The applicant has presented good and sufficient cause that the unique characteristics of the size, configuration or topography of the site render compliance with the flood-resistant construction provisions inappropriate.2.Failure to grant the modification would result in exceptional hardship.3.The granting of the modification will not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety or extraordinary public expense; create nuisances; cause fraud on or victimization of the public; or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.4.The modification is the minimum necessary to afford relief, considering the flood hazard.5.A written notice will be provided to the applicant specifying, if applicable, the difference between the design flood elevation and the elevation to which the building is to be built, stating that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced floor elevation and that construction below the design flood elevation increases risks to life and property.
[A] 104.3 Applications and permits.
The code official shall receive applications, review construction documents, issue permits, inspect the premises for which such permits have been issued and enforce compliance with the provisions of this code.
[A] 104.3.1 Determination of substantially improved or substantially damaged existing buildings and structures in flood hazard areas.
For applications for reconstruction, rehabilitation,
repair, alteration, addition or other improvement of existing buildings or structures located in flood hazard areas, the code official shall determine where the proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage. Where the code official determines that the proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage, and where required by this code, the code official shall require the building to meet the requirements of Section 1612 of the International Building Code, or Section R306 of the International Residential Code, as applicable.
[A] 104.3.2 Preliminary meeting.
When requested by the permit applicant or the code official, the code official shall meet with the permit applicant prior to the application for a construction permit to discuss plans for the proposed work or change of occupancy in order to establish the specific applicability of the provisions of this code.Exception: repairs and Level 1 alterations.
[A] 104.3.3 Building evaluation.
The code official is authorized to require an existing building to be investigated and evaluated by a registered design professional based on the circumstances agreed on at the preliminary meeting. The design professional shall notify the code official if any potential noncompliance with the provisions of this code is identified.
[A] 104.4 Right of entry.
Where it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of this code, or where the code official has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in a structure or on any premises a condition that is contrary to or in violation of this code that makes the structure or premises unsafe,
dangerous or hazardous, the code official is authorized to enter the structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect or to perform the duties imposed by this code. If such structure or premises is  occupied, the code offical shall present credentials to the occupant and
request entry. If such structure or premises is unoccupied, the code official shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner, the owner’s authorized agent or other person having charge or control of the structure or premises and request entry. If entry is refused, the code official shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
[A] 104.4.1 Warrant.
Where the code official has first obtained a proper inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, an owner, the owner’s authorized agent, occupant or person having charge, care or control of the structure or premises shall not fail or neglect, after a proper request is made as herein provided, to permit entry therein by the code official for the purposes of inspection and examination pursuant to this code.
[A] 104.5 Identification.
The code official shall carry proper identification when inspecting structures or premises in the performance of duties under this code.
[A] 104.6 Notices and orders.
The code official shall issue necessary notices or orders to ensure compliance with this code. Notices of violations shall be in accordance with Section 113.
[A] 104.7 Official records.
The code official shall keep official records as required by Sections 104.7.1 through 104.7.5. Such official records shall be retained for not less than 5 years or for as long as the structure or activity to which such records relate remains in existence, unless otherwise provided by other regulations.
[A] 104.7.1 Approvals.
A record of approvals shall be maintained by the code official and shall be available for public inspection during business hours in accordance with applicable laws.
[A] 104.7.2 Inspections.
The code official shall keep a record of each inspection made, including notices and orders issued, showing the findings and disposition of each.
[A] 104.7.3 Code alternatives and modifications.
Application for alternative materials, design and methods of construction and equipment in accordance with Section 104.2.3; modifications in accordance with Section 104.2.4; and documentation of the final decision of the code official for either shall be in writing and shall be retained in the official records.
[A] 104.7.4 Tests.
The code official shall keep a record of tests conducted to comply with Sections 104.2.2.4 and 104.2.3.5.
[A] 104.7.5 Fees.
The code official shall keep a record of fees collected and refunded in accordance with Section 108.
[A] 104.8 Liability.
The code official, member of the Board of Appeals, officer or employee charged with the enforcement of this code, while acting for the jurisdiction in good faith and without malice in the discharge of the duties required by this code or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not thereby be rendered personally liable, either civilly or criminally, and is hereby relieved from personal liability for any damage accruing to persons or property as a result of any act or by reason of an act or omission in the discharge of official duties.
[A] 104.8.1 Legal defense.
Any suit or criminal complaint instituted against any officer or employee because of an act performed by that officer or employee in the lawful discharge of duties and under the provisions of this code or other laws or ordinances implemented through the enforcement of this code shall be defended by legal representatives of the jurisdiction until the final termination of the proceedings. The code official or any subordinate shall not be liable for cost in any action, suit or proceeding that is instituted in pursuance of the provisions of this code.
[A] 104.9 Approved materials and equipment.
Materials, equipment and devices approved by the code official shall be constructed and installed in accordance with such approval.
[A] 104.9.1 Materials and equipment reuse.
Materials, equipment and devices shall not be reused unless such elements are in good working condition and approved.
Section 105 Permits
[A] 105.1 Required.
Any owner or owner’s authorized agent who intends to repair, add to, alter, relocate, demolish or change the occupancy of a building or to repair, install, add, alter, remove, convert or replace any electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, the installation of which is regulated by this code, or to cause any such work to be performed, shall first make application to the code official and obtain the required permit.
[A] 105.1.1 Annual permit.
Instead of an individual permit for each alteration to an already approved electrical, gas, mechanical, or plumbing installation, the code official is authorized to issue an annual permit on application therefor to any person, firm or corporation regularly employing one or more qualified trade persons in the building, structure, or on the premises owned or operated by the applicant for the permit.
[A] 105.1.2 Annual permit records.
The person to whom an annual permit is issued shall keep a detailed record of alterations made under such annual permit. The code official shall have access to such records at all times, or such records shall be filed with the code official as designated.
[A] 105.2 Work exempt from permit.
Exemptions from permit requirements of this code shall not be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in violation of the provisions of this code or any other laws or ordinances of this jurisdiction. Permits shall not be required for the following:Building: 1.Sidewalks and driveways not more than 30 inches (762 mm) above grade and not over any basement or story below and that are not part of an accessible route.2.Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, counter tops and similar finish work.3.Temporary motion picture, television, and theater stage sets and scenery.4.Shade cloth structures constructed for nursery or agricultural purposes, and not including service systems.5.Window awnings supported by an exterior wall of Group R-3 or Group U occupancies.6.Nonfixed and movable cases, counters and partitions not over 5 feet 9 inches (1753 mm) in height. Electrical: 1.Repairs and maintenance: Minor repair work, including the replacement of lamps or the connection of approved portable electrical equipment to approved permanently installed receptacles.2.Radio and television transmitting stations: The provisions of this code shall not apply to electrical equipment used for radio and television transmissions, but do apply to equipment and wiring for power supply, the installations of towers and antennas.3.Temporary testing systems:
A permit shall not be required for the installation of any temporary system required for the testing or servicing of electrical equipment or apparatus. Gas: 1.Portable heating appliance.2.Replacement of any minor part that does not alter approval of equipment or make such equipment unsafe. Mechanical: 1.Portable heating appliance.2.Portable ventilation equipment.3.Portable cooling unit.4.Steam, hot or chilled water piping within any heating or cooling equipment regulated by this code.5.Replacement of any part that does not alter its approval or make it unsafe.6.Portable evaporative cooler.7.Self-contained refrigeration system containing 10 pounds (4.54 kg) or less of refrigerant and actuated by motors of 1 horsepower (746 W) or less. Plumbing: 1.The stopping of leaks in drains, water, soil, waste or vent pipe; provided, however, that if any concealed trap, drainpipe, water, soil, waste or vent pipe becomes defective and it becomes necessary to remove and replace the same with new material, such work shall be considered as new work, and a permit shall be obtained and inspection made as provided in this code.2.The clearing of stoppages or the repairing of leaks in pipes, valves or fixtures, and the removal and reinstallation of water closets, provided that such repairs do not involve or require the replacement or rearrangement of valves, pipes or fixtures.
[A] 105.2.1 Emergency repairs.
Where equipment replacements and repairs must be performed in an emergency situation, the permit application shall be submitted within the next working business day to the code official.
[A] 105.2.2 Repairs.
Application or notice to the code official is not required for repairs to structures and items listed in Section 105.2 provided that such repairs do not include any of the following:1.The cutting away of any wall, partition or portion thereof.2.The removal or cutting of any structural beam or load-bearing support.3.The removal or change of any required means of egress or rearrangement of parts of a structure affecting the egress requirements.4.Any addition to,
alteration of, replacement or relocation of any standpipe, water supply, sewer, drainage, drain leader, gas, soil, waste, vent or similar piping, or electric wiring.5.Mechanical or other work affecting public health or general safety.
[A] 105.2.3 Public service agencies.
A permit shall not be required for the installation, alteration or repair of generation, transmission, distribution or metering, or other related equipment that is under the ownership and control of public service agencies by established right.
[A] 105.3 Application for permit.
To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file an application therefor in writing on a form furnished by the Department of Building Safety for that purpose. Such application shall:1.Identify and describe the work in accordance with Chapter 3 to be covered by the permit for which application is made.2.Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by legal description, street address or similar description that will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or work.3.Indicate the use and occupancy for which the proposed work is intended.4.Be accompanied by construction documents and other information as required in Section 106.3.5.State the valuation of the proposed work.6.Be signed by the applicant or the applicant’s authorized agent.7.Give such other data and information as required by the code official.
[A] 105.3.1 Action on application.
The code official shall examine or cause to be examined applications for permits and amendments thereto within a reasonable time after filing. If the application or the construction documents do not conform to the requirements of pertinent laws, the code official shall reject such application in writing, stating the reasons therefor. If the code official is satisfied that the proposed work conforms to the requirements of this code and laws and ordinances applicable thereto, the code official shall issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable.
[A] 105.3.2 Time limitation of application.
An application for a permit for any proposed work shall be deemed to have been abandoned 180 days after the date of filing, unless such application has been pursued in good faith or a permit has been issued; except that the code official is authorized to grant one or more extensions of time for additional periods not exceeding 90 days each. The extension shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause demonstrated.
[A] 105.4 Validity of permit.
The issuance or granting of a permit shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of this code or of any other ordinance of the jurisdiction. Permits presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this code or other ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid. The issuance of a permit based on construction documents and other data shall not prevent the code official from requiring the correction of errors in the construction documents and other data. The code official is authorized to prevent occupancy or use of a structure where in violation of this code or of any other ordinances of this jurisdiction.
[A] 105.5 Expiration.
Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the work on the site authorized by such permit is commenced within 180 days after its issuance, or if the work authorized on the site by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of 180 days after the time the work is commenced. The code official is authorized to grant, in writing, one or more extensions of time for periods not more than 180 days each. The extension shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause demonstrated.
[A] 105.6 Suspension or revocation.
The code official is authorized to suspend or revoke a permit issued under the provisions of this code wherever the permit is issued in error or on the basis of incorrect, inaccurate or incomplete information, or in violation of any ordinance or regulation or any of the provisions of this code.
[A] 105.7 Placement of permit.
The building permit or copy shall be kept on the site of the work until the completion of the project.
Section 106 Construction Documents
[A] 106.1 General.
Submittal documents consisting of construction documents, special inspection and structural observation programs, investigation and evaluation reports, and other data shall be submitted in two or more sets, or in a digital format where allowed by the code official, with each application for a permit. The construction documents shall be prepared by a registered design professional where required by the statutes of the jurisdiction in which the project is to be constructed. Where special conditions exist, the code official is authorized to require additional construction documents to be prepared by a registered design professional.Exception: The code official is authorized to waive the submission of construction documents and other data not required to be prepared by a registered design professional if it is found that the nature of the work applied for is such that reviewing of construction documents is not necessary to obtain compliance with this code.
[A] 106.2 Construction documents.
Construction documents shall be in accordance with Sections 106.2.1 through 106.2.6.
[A] 106.2.1 Construction documents.
Construction documents shall be dimensioned and drawn on suitable material. Electronic media documents are permitted to be submitted where approved by the code official. Construction documents shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the location, nature and extent of the work proposed and show in detail that it will conform to the provisions of this code and relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations, as determined by the code official. The work areas shall be shown.
[A] 106.2.2 Fire protection system(s) shop drawings.
Shop drawings for the fire protection system(s) shall be submitted to indicate compliance with this code and the construction documents and shall be approved prior to the start of system installation. Shop drawings shall contain information as required by the referenced installation standards in Chapter 9 of the International Building Code.
[A] 106.2.3 Means of egress.
The construction documents for alterations—Level 2, alterations—Level 3, additions and changes of occupancy shall show in sufficient detail the location, construction, size and character of all portions of the means of egress in compliance with the provisions of this code. The construction documents shall designate the number of occupants to be accommodated in every work area of every floor and in all affected rooms and spaces.
[A] 106.2.4 Exterior wall envelope.
Construction documents for work affecting the exterior wall envelope shall describe the exterior wall envelope in sufficient detail to determine compliance with this code. The construction documents shall provide details of the exterior wall envelope as required, including windows, doors, flashing, intersections with dissimilar materials, corners, end details, control joints, intersections at roof, eaves or parapets, means of drainage, water-resistive barriers and details around openings.The construction documents shall include manufacturer’s installation instructions that provide supporting documentation that the proposed penetration and opening details described in the construction documents maintain the wind and weather resistance of the exterior wall envelope. The supporting documentation shall fully describe the exterior wall system that was tested, where applicable, as well as the test procedure used.
[A] 106.2.5 Exterior balconies and elevated walking surfaces.
Where the scope of work involves balconies or other elevated walking surfaces that have weather-exposed surfaces, and the structural framing is protected by an impervious moisture barrier, the construction documents shall include details for all elements of the impervious moisture barrier system. The construction documents shall include manufacturer’s installation instructions.
[A] 106.2.6 Site plan.
The construction documents submitted with the application for permit shall be accompanied by a site plan showing to scale the size and location of new construction and existing structures on the site, distances from lot lines, the established street grades, and the proposed finished grades; and it shall be drawn in accordance with an accurate boundary line survey. In the case of demolition, the site plan shall show construction to be demolished and the location and size of existing structures and construction that are to remain on the site or plot. The code official is authorized to waive or modify the requirement for a site plan where the application for permit is for alteration, repair or change of occupancy.
[A] 106.3 Examination of documents.
The code official shall examine or cause to be examined the submittal documents and shall ascertain by such examinations whether the construction or occupancy indicated and described is in accordance with the requirements of this code and other pertinent laws or ordinances.
[A] 106.3.1 Approval of construction documents.
Where the code official issues a permit, the construction documents shall be approved in writing or by stamp as “Reviewed for Code Compliance.” One set of construction documents so reviewed shall be retained by the code official. The other set shall be returned to the applicant, shall be kept at the site of work, and shall be open to inspection by the code official or a duly authorized representative.
[A] 106.3.2 Previous approval.
This code shall not require changes in the construction documents, construction or designated occupancy of a structure for which a lawful permit has been issued and the construction of which has been pursued in good faith within 180 days after the effective date of this code and has not been abandoned.
[A] 106.3.3 Phased approval.
The code official is authorized to issue a permit for the construction of foundations or any other part of a building before the construction documents for the whole building or structure have been submitted, provided that adequate information and detailed statements have been filed complying with pertinent requirements of this code. The holder of such permit for the foundation or other parts of a building shall proceed at the holder's own risk with the building operation and without assurance that a permit for the entire structure will be granted.
[A] 106.3.4 Deferred submittals.
Deferral of any submittal items shall have the prior approval of the code official. The registered design professional in responsible charge shall list the deferred submittals on the construction documents for review by the code official.Submittal documents for deferred submittal items shall be submitted to the registered design professional in responsible charge who shall review them and forward them to the code official with a notation indicating that the deferred submittal documents have been reviewed and that they have been found to be in general conformance to the design of the building. The deferred submittal items shall not be installed until their deferred submittal documents have been approved by the code official.
[A] 106.4 Amended construction documents.
Work shall be installed in accordance with the reviewed construction documents, and any changes made during construction that are not in compliance with the approved construction documents shall be resubmitted for approval as an amended set of construction documents.
[A] 106.5 Retention of construction documents.
One set of approved construction documents shall be retained by the code official for a period of not less than the period required for retention of public records.
[A] 106.6 Design professional in responsible charge.
Where it is required that documents be prepared by a registered design professional, the code official shall be authorized to require the owner or the owner’s authorized agent to engage and designate on the building permit application a registered design professional who shall act as the registered design professional in responsible charge. If the circumstances require, the owner or the owner’s authorized agent shall designate a substitute registered design professional in responsible charge who shall perform the duties required of the original registered design professional in responsible charge. The code official shall be notified in writing by the owner or the owner’s authorized agent if the registered design professional in responsible charge is changed or is unable to continue to perform the duties. The registered design professional in responsible charge shall be responsible for reviewing and coordinating submittal documents prepared by others, including phased and deferred submittal items, for compatibility with the design of the building. Where structural observation is required, the inspection program shall name the individual or firms who are to perform structural observation and describe the stages of construction at which structural observation is to occur.
Section 107 Temporary Uses, Equipment and Systems
[A] 107.1 General.
The code official is authorized to issue a permit for temporary uses, equipment and systems. Such permits shall be limited as to time of service but shall not be permitted for more than 180 days. The code official is authorized to grant extensions for demonstrated cause.
[A] 107.2 Conformance.
Temporary uses shall conform to the
requirements of this code as necessary to ensure health, safety and general welfare.
[A] 107.3 Temporary service utilties.
The code official is authorized to give permission to temporarily supply service utilities in accordance with Section 111.
[A] 107.4 Termination of approval.
The code official is authorized to terminate such permit for a temporary use and to order the same to be discontinued.
Section 108 Fees
[A] 108.1 Payment of fees.
A permit shall not be valid until the fees prescribed by law have been paid, nor shall an amendment to a permit be released until the additional fee, if any, has been paid.
[A] 108.2 Schedule of permit fees.
Where a permit is required, a fee for each permit shall be paid as required, in accordance with the schedule as established by the applicable governing authority.
[A] 108.3 Permit valuations.
The applicant for a permit shall provide an estimated value of the work for which the permit is being issued at time of application. Such estimated valuations shall include total value of work, including materials and labor for which the permit is being issued, such as electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing equipment and permanent systems.
Where, in the opinion of the code official, the valuation is underestimated, the permit shall be denied unless the applicant can show detailed estimates acceptable to the code official. The code official shall have the authority to adjust the final valuation for permit fees.
[A] 108.4 Work commencing before permit issuance.
Any person who commences any work before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to a fee established by the code official that shall be in addition to the required permit fees.
[A] 108.5 Related fees.
The payment of the fee for the construction, alteration, removal or demolition of work done in connection to or concurrently with the work authorized by a permit shall not relieve the applicant or holder of the permit from the payment of other fees that are prescribed by law.
[A] 108.6 Refunds.
The code official is authorized to establish a refund policy.
Section 109 Inspections
[A] 109.1 General.
Construction or work for which a permit is required shall be subject to inspection by the code official, and such construction or work shall remain visible and able to be accessed for inspection purposes until approved. Approval as a result of an inspection shall not be construed to be an approval of a violation of the provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction. Inspections presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid. It shall be the duty of the permit applicant to cause the work to remain visible and able to be accessed for inspection purposes. Neither the code official nor the jurisdiction shall be liable for expense entailed in the removal or replacement of any material required to allow inspection.
[A] 109.2 Preliminary inspection.
Before issuing a permit, the code official is authorized to examine or cause to be examined buildings and sites for which an application has been filed.
[A] 109.3 Required inspections.
The code official, on notification, shall make the inspections set forth in Sections 109.3.1 through 109.3.11.
[A] 109.3.1 Footing or foundation inspection.
Footing and foundation inspections shall be made after excavations for footings are complete and any required reinforcing steel is in place. For concrete foundations, any required forms shall be in place prior to inspection. Materials for the foundation shall be on the job, except where concrete is ready-mixed in accordance with ASTM C94, the concrete need not be on the job.
[A] 109.3.2 Concrete slab or under-floor inspection.
Concrete slab and under-floor inspections shall be made after in-slab or under-floor reinforcing steel and building service equipment, conduit, piping accessories and other ancillary equipment items are in place but before any concrete is placed or floor sheathing installed, including the subfloor.
[A] 109.3.3 Lowest floor elevation.
For additions and substantial improvements to existing buildings in flood hazard areas, on placement of the lowest floor, including basement, and prior to further vertical construction, the elevation documentation required in the International Building Code, or the International Residential Code, as applicable, shall be submitted to the code official.
[A] 109.3.4 Frame inspection.
Framing inspections shall be made after the roof deck or sheathing, framing, fire blocking and bracing are in place and pipes, chimneys and vents to be concealed are complete and the rough electrical, plumbing, heating wires, pipes and ducts are approved.
[A] 109.3.5 Lath or gypsum panel product inspection.
Lath and gypsum
panel inspections shall be made after lathing and gypsum panel products, interior and exterior,
are in place but before any plastering is applied or before gypsum panel product joints and fasteners are taped and finished.Exception: Gypsum panels that are not part of a fire-resistance-rated assembly or a shear assembly.
[A] 109.3.6 Weather-exposed balcony and walking surface waterproofing.
Where the scope of work involves balconies or other elevated walking surfaces that have weather-exposed surfaces and the structural framing is protected by an impervious moisture barrier, all elements of the impervious moisture barrier system shall not be concealed until inspected and approved.Exception:
Where special inspections are provided in accordance with Section 1705.1.1, Item 3, of the International Building Code.
[A] 109.3.7 Fire- and smoke-resistant penetrations.
Protection of joints and penetrations in fire-resistance-rated assemblies, smoke barriers and smoke partitions shall not be concealed from view until inspected and approved.
[A] 109.3.8 Other inspections.
In addition to the inspections specified in Sections 109.2 through 109.3.7, the code official is authorized to make or require other inspections of any construction work to ascertain compliance with the provisions of this code and other laws that are enforced by the department of building safety.
[A] 109.3.9 Special inspections.
Special inspections shall be required in accordance with the International Building Code.
[A] 109.3.10 Flood hazard documentation.
Where a building is located in a flood hazard area, documentation of the elevation of the lowest floor
or the elevation of dry floodproofing, if applicable, as required in the International Building Code or the International Residential Code, as applicable, shall be submitted to the code official prior to the final inspection.
[A] 109.3.11 Final inspection.
The final inspection shall be made after work required by the building permit is completed.
[A] 109.4 Inspection agencies.
The code official is authorized to accept reports of approved inspection agencies, provided that such agencies satisfy the requirements as to qualifications and reliability.
[A] 109.5 Inspection requests.
It shall be the duty of the holder of the building permit or their duly authorized agent to notify the code official when work is ready for inspection. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to provide access to and means for any inspections of such work that are required by this code.
[A] 109.6 Approval required.
Work shall not be done beyond the point indicated in each successive inspection without first obtaining the approval of the code official. The code official, on notification, shall make the requested inspections and shall either indicate the portion of the construction that is satisfactory as completed or shall notify the permit holder or an agent of the permit holder wherein the same fails to comply with this code. Any portions that do not comply shall be corrected and such portion shall not be covered or concealed until authorized by the code official.
Section 110 Certificate of Occupancy
[A] 110.1 Change of occupancy.
A structure shall not be used or occupied in whole or in part, and a change of occupancy of a structure or portion thereof shall not be made until the code official has issued a certificate of occupancy therefor as provided herein. Issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall not be construed as an approval of a violation of the provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction. Certificates presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this code or other ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid.Exception: Certificates of occupancy are not required for work exempt from permits in accordance with Section 105.2.
[A] 110.2 Certificate issued.
After the code official inspects the structure and does not find violations of the provisions of this code or other laws that are enforced by the department, the code official shall issue a certificate of occupancy that contains the following:1.The permit number.2.The address of the structure.3.The name and address of the owner or the owner’s authorized agent.4.A description of that portion of the structure for which the certificate is issued.5.A statement that the described portion of the structure has been inspected for compliance with the requirements of this code for the occupancy and division of occupancy and the use for which the proposed occupancy is classified.6.The name of the code official.7.The edition of the code under which the permit was issued.8.The use and occupancy in accordance with the provisions of the International Building Code.9.The type of construction as defined in the International Building Code.10.The design occupant load and any impact the alteration has on the design occupant load of the area not within the scope of the work.11.Where an automatic sprinkler system is provided, and whether an automatic sprinkler system is required.12.Any special stipulations and conditions of the building permit.
[A] 110.3 Temporary occupancy.
The code official is authorized to issue a temporary certificate of occupancy before the completion of the entire work covered by the permit, provided that such portion or portions shall be occupied safely. The code official shall set a time period during which the temporary certificate of occupancy is valid.
[A] 110.4 Revocation.
The code official is authorized to suspend or revoke a certificate of occupancy or completion issued under the provisions of this code, in writing, wherever the certificate is issued in error or on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or where it is determined that the building or structure or portion thereof is in violation of the provisions of this code or other ordinance of the jurisdiction.
Section 111 Service Utilities
[A] 111.1 Connection of service utilities.
A person shall not make connections from a utility, source of energy, fuel, power, water system or sewer system to any building or system that is regulated by this code for which a permit is required, until approved by the code official.
[A] 111.2 Temporary connection.
The code official shall have the authority to authorize the temporary connection of the building or system to the utility, source of energy, fuel, power, water system or sewer system for the purpose of testing systems or for use under a temporary approval.
[A] 111.3 Authority to disconnect service utilities.
The code official shall have the authority to authorize disconnection of utility service to the building, structure or system regulated by this code and the referenced codes and standards in case of emergency where necessary to eliminate an immediate hazard to life or property or where such utility connection has been made without the approval required by
Section 111.1 or
111.2. The code official shall notify the serving utility and, wherever possible, the owner or the owner’s authorized agent and the occupant of the building, structure or service system of the decision to disconnect prior to taking such action. If not notified prior to disconnecting, the owner, the owner’s authorized agent or occupant of the building, structure or service system shall be notified in writing, as soon as practical thereafter.
Section 112 Means of Appeals
[A] 112.1 General.
In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations made by the code official relative to the application and interpretation of this code, there shall be and is hereby created a board of appeals. The board of appeals shall be appointed by the applicable governing authority and shall hold office at its pleasure. The board shall adopt rules of procedure for conducting its business and shall render all decisions and findings in writing to the appellant with a duplicate copy to the code official.
[A] 112.2 Limitations on authority.
An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply or an equivalent or better form of construction is proposed. The board shall not have authority to waive requirements of this
code.
[A] 112.3 Qualifications.
The board of appeals shall consist of members who are qualified by experience and training on matters pertaining to the provisions of this code and are not employees of the jurisdiction.
[A] 112.4 Administration.
The code official shall take action without delay in accordance with the decision of the board.
Section 113 Violations
[A] 113.1 Unlawful acts.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to repair, alter, extend, add, move, remove, demolish or change the occupancy of any building or equipment regulated by this code or cause same to be done in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of this code.
[A] 113.2 Notice of violation.
The code official is authorized to serve a notice of violation or order on the person responsible for the repair, alteration, extension, addition, moving, removal, demolition or change in the occupancy of a building in violation of the provisions of this code or in violation of a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code. Such order shall direct the discontinuance of the illegal action or condition and the abatement of the violation.
[A] 113.3 Prosecution of violation.
If the notice of violation is not complied with promptly, the code official is authorized to request the legal counsel of the jurisdiction to institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate such violation or to require the removal or termination of the unlawful occupancy of the building or structure in violation of the provisions of this code or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto.
[A] 113.4 Violation penalties.
Any person who violates a provision of this code or fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who repairs or alters or changes the occupancy of a building or structure in violation of the approved construction documents or directive of the code official or of a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code shall be subject to penalties as prescribed by law.
Section 114 Stop Work Order
[A] 114.1 Authority.
Where the code official finds any work regulated by this code being performed in a manner contrary to the provisions of this code or in a dangerous or
unsafe manner, the code official is authorized to issue a stop work order.
[A] 114.2 Issuance.
The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, the owner’s authorized agent or the person performing the work. Upon issuance of a stop work order, the cited work shall immediately cease. The stop work order shall state the reason for the order and the conditions under which the cited work is authorized to resume.
[A] 114.3 Emergencies.
Where an emergency exists, the code official shall not be required to give a written notice prior to stopping the work.
[A] 114.4 Failure to comply.
Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to fines established by the authority having jurisdiction.
Section 115 Unsafe Structures and Equipment
[A] 115.1 Unsafe conditions.
Structures or existing equipment that are or hereafter become unsafe, insanitary or deficient because of inadequate means of egress facilities, inadequate light and ventilation, or that constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous to human life or the public welfare, or that involve illegal or improper occupancy or inadequate maintenance, shall be deemed an unsafe condition. unsafe structures shall be taken down and removed or made safe as the code official deems necessary and as provided for in this code. A vacant structure that is not secured against unauthorized entry shall be deemed unsafe.
[A] 115.2 Record.
The code official shall cause a report to be filed on an unsafe condition. The report shall state the occupancy of the structure and the nature of the unsafe condition.
[A] 115.3 Notice.
If an unsafe condition is found, the code official shall serve on the owner of the structure or the owner’s authorized agent a written notice that describes the condition deemed unsafe and specifies the required repairs or improvements to be made to abate the unsafe condition, or that requires the unsafe building to be demolished within a stipulated time. Such notice shall require the person thus notified to declare immediately to the code official acceptance or rejection of the terms of the order.
[A] 115.4 Method of service.
Such notice shall be deemed properly served where a copy thereof is served in accordance with one of the following methods:1.A copy is delivered to the owner or the owner’s authorized agent personally.2.A copy is sent by certified or registered mail addressed to the owner at the last known address with the return receipt requested.3.A copy is delivered in any other manner as prescribed by local law. If the certified or registered letter is returned showing that the letter was not delivered, a copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by such notice. Service of such notice in the foregoing manner on the owner’s authorized agent shall constitute service of notice on the owner.
[A] 115.5 Restoration or abatement.
The structure or equipment determined to be unsafe by the code official is permitted to be restored to a safe condition. The owner, the owner's authorized agent, operator or occupant of a structure, premises or equipment deemed unsafe by the code official shall abate or cause to be abated or corrected such unsafe conditions either by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or other approved corrective action. To the extent that repairs,
alterations or additions are made, or a change of occupancy occurs during the restoration of the structure, such repairs,
alterations, additions or change of occupancy shall comply with the requirements of this code.
Section 116 Emergency Measures
[A] 116.1 Imminent danger.
Where, in the opinion of the code official, there is imminent danger of failure or collapse of a building that endangers life, or where any building or part of a building has fallen and life is endangered by the occupation of the building, or where there is actual or potential danger to the building occupants or those in the proximity of any structure because of explosives, explosive fumes or vapors, or the presence of toxic fumes, gases, or materials, or operation of defective or dangerous equipment, the code official is hereby authorized and empowered to order and require the occupants to vacate the premises forthwith. The code official shall cause to be posted at each entrance to such structure a notice reading as follows: “This Structure Is Unsafe and Its Occupancy Has Been Prohibited by the Code Official.” It shall be unlawful for any person to enter such structure except for the purpose of securing the structure, making the required repairs, removing the hazardous condition, or of demolishing the same.
[A] 116.2 Temporary safeguards.
Notwithstanding other provisions of this code, whenever, in the opinion of the code official, there is imminent danger due to an unsafe condition, the code official shall order the necessary work to be done, including the boarding up of openings, to render such structure temporarily safe whether or not the legal procedure herein described has been instituted; and shall cause such other action to be taken as the code official deems necessary to meet such emergency.
[A] 116.3 Closing streets.
Where necessary for public safety, the code official shall temporarily close structures and close or order the authority having jurisdiction to close sidewalks, streets, public ways and places adjacent to unsafe structures, and prohibit the same from being utilized.
[A] 116.4 Emergency repairs.
For the purposes of this section, the code official shall employ the necessary labor and materials to perform the required work as expeditiously as possible.
[A] 116.5 Costs of emergency repairs.
Costs incurred in the performance of emergency work shall be paid by the jurisdiction. The legal counsel of the jurisdiction shall institute appropriate action against the owner of the premises or the owner’s authorized agent where the unsafe structure is or was located for the recovery of such costs.
[A] 116.6 Hearing.
Any person ordered to take emergency measures shall comply with such order forthwith. Any affected person shall thereafter, on petition directed to the appeals board, be afforded a hearing as described in this code.
Section 117 Demolition
[A] 117.1 General.
When the code official determines any structure is so old, dilapidated or has become so out of repair and is dangerous, unsafe, insanitary and otherwise unfit for human habitation or occupancy the code official can order either of the following:
1. The code official is permitted to authorize the owner or owner’s authorized agent to make the structure safe byrepairs in order to make the structure safe and sanitary. Where there has been a cessation of construction repairs of any structure for a period of more than 2 years, the structure will be ordered demolished and removed.
2. The code official is permitted to order the owner or owner’s authorized agent to demolish and remove any such structure.
[A] 117.2 Notices and orders.
Notices and orders shall comply with Section 113.
[A] 117.3 Failure to comply.
If the owner or the owner’s authorized agent of a premises fails to comply with a demolition order within the time prescribed, the code official shall cause the structure to be demolished and removed, either through an available public agency or by contract or arrangement with private persons, and the cost of such demolition and removal shall be charged against the real estate on which the structure is located and shall be a lien on such real estate.
[A] 117.4 Salvage materials.
Where any structure has been ordered demolished and removed, the governing body or other designated officer under said contract or arrangement aforesaid shall have the right to sell the salvage and valuable materials at the highest price obtainable. The net proceeds of such sale, after deducting the expenses of such demolition and removal, shall be promptly remitted with a report of such sale or transaction, including the items of expense and the amounts deducted, for the person who is entitled thereto, subject to any order of a court. If such a surplus does not remain to be turned over, the report shall so state.
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
•
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.