======================================================================
Chapter 4 Reserved
======================================================================

Chapter 3 Definitions Abbreviations And Acronyms - International Green Construction Code Code (IgCC)
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2024
International Green Construction Code Code (IgCC)
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2024 International Green Construction Code Code (IgCC) 2024 International Zoning Code (IZC) 2024 International Wildland-Urban Interface Code (IWUIC) 2024 International Swimming Pool and Spa Code (ISPSC) 2024 International Private Sewage Disposal Code (IPSDC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
I-Codes
/
2024 International Green Construction Code Code (IgCC)
Chapter 3 Definitions, Abbreviations, and Acronyms
2024 International Green Construction Code Code (IgCC)
favorite_border
Version:
Feb 2025
Contents
Notes
Insights
Overview
Copyright
Preface
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Chapter 2 Reserved
Chapter 3 Definitions, Abbreviations, and Acronyms
Section 301 Definitions, Abbreviations, and Acronyms
Chapter 4 Reserved
Chapter 5 Site Sustainability
Chapter 6 Water Use Efficiency
Chapter 7 Energy Efficiency
Chapter 8 Indoor Environmental Quality (Ieq)
Chapter 9 Materials and Resources
Chapter 10 Construction and Plans for Operation
Chapter 11 Normative References
Normative Appendix a Prescriptive Building Envelope Tables
Normative Appendix B Performance Option for Energy Efficiency
Normative Appendix C Building Concentrations
Normative Appendix D Long-Run Marginal Emission Rates
Informative Appendix E Building Envelope Tables
Informative Appendix F Integrated Design
Informative Appendix G Reserved
Informative Appendix H Zepi Conversion Methodology
Informative Appendix I Derivation of Source Energy Conversion Factors and Co2e Emission Factors
Informative Appendix J Additional Guidance for Functional Performance Testing (Fpt) and the Commissioning (Cx) Process
Informative Appendix K Requirements That Overlap with Core Elements of the Leed Rating System
Informative Appendix L Informative References and Bibliography
Informative Appendix M Option for Residential Compliance Using the National Green Building Standard
Informative Appendix N Addenda Description Information
Annex 1 Reference Standard Reproduction Annex Ashrae Standard 169
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
Chapter 3 Definitions, Abbreviations, and Acronyms
Section 301 Definitions, Abbreviations, and Acronyms
301.1 (3.1) General.
Certain terms, abbreviations, and acronyms are defined in this section for the purposes of this standard. These definitions are applicable to all sections of this standard. Terms that are not defined herein, but that are defined in standards that are referenced herein (Informative Note: e.g., ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1), shall have the meanings as defined in those standards. Other terms that are not defined shall have their ordinarily accepted meanings within the context in which they are used. Ordinarily accepted meanings shall be based on American standard English language usage, as documented in an approved unabridged dictionary.
301.2 (3.2) Definitions.
agricultural land:
land that is, or was, within ten years prior to the date of the building permit application for the building project, primarily devoted to the commercial production of horticultural, viticultural, floricultural, dairy, apiary, vegetable, or animal products or of berries, grain, hay, straw, turf, seed, finfish in upland hatcheries, or livestock, and that has long-term commercial significance for agricultural production. Land that meets this definition is agricultural land regardless of how the land is zoned by the local government with zoning jurisdiction over that land. agrifiber product:
wheatboard or strawboard. air, makeup:
see ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 62.1. air, outdoor:
see ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 62.1. air, transfer:
see ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 62.1. airflow, minimum outdoor:
the outdoor airflow provided by a ventilation system to meet requirements for indoor air quality, excluding any additional outdoor air intake to reduce or eliminate the need for mechanical cooling. alternative daily cover:
cover material, other than earthen material, placed on the surface of the active face of a municipal solidwaste landfill at the end of each operating day to control vectors, fires, odors, blowing litter, and scavenging. annual sunlight exposure (ASE):
the percent of an analysis area that exceeds a specified direct-sunlight illuminance level for more than a specified number of hours per year (Source: IES LM 83). Annual sunlight exposure is a metric that quantifies the potential for excessive sunlight in interior work environments. approved:
acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction.
approved agency:
an established and recognized agency that is regularly engaged in conducting tests, furnishing inspection services, or furnishing product certification where such agency has been approved. approved source:
an independent person, firm, or corporation, approved by the authority having jurisdiction, who is competent and experienced in the application of engineering principles to materials, methods, or systems analyses. attic and other roofs:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. authority having jurisdiction (AHJ):
the agency or agent responsible for enforcing this standard. automatic:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. automatic shut-off control:
a device capable of automatically turning loads off without manual intervention. Automatic shut-off controls include devices such as occupancy sensors, vacancy sensors, motion sensors, programmable time switches, or count-down timers. baseline building design:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. baseline building performance:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. Basis of Design (BoD):
a document that records the concepts, calculations, decisions, and product selections used to meet the owner’s project requirements and to satisfy applicable regulatory requirements, standards, and guidelines. The document includes both narrative descriptions and lists of individual items that support the design process. (See owner’s project requirements.) biobased product:
a commercial or industrial product (other than food or feed) that comprises, in whole or in significant part, biological products or renewable agricultural materials (including plant, animal, and marine materials) or forestry materials. biodiverse plantings:
nonhomogeneous, multiple-species plantings. brownfield:
a parcel of land documented as contaminated by means of an ASTM E1903 Phase II Environmental Site Assessment or a site classified as a brownfield by a local, state, or federal government agency. building entrance:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. building envelope:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. building product:
any material, product, or component part of an assembly, procured for permanent installation in the building project, that has the same specification requirements and is classified by the same product category rules. building product assembly:
building products delivered to the project site as a completed assembly prepared for installation. building project:
one or more buildings and the site on which they are located that are subject to one or more permits issued by the AHJ. carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e):
a measure used to compare the impact of various greenhouse gases based on their global warming potential (GWP). CO2e approximates the time-integrated warming effect of a unit mass of a given greenhouse gas relative to that of carbon dioxide (CO2). GWP is an index for estimating the relative global warming contribution of atmospheric emissions of a particular greenhouse gas compared to emissions of an equal mass of CO2. classroom:
a space primarily used for scheduled instructional activities. color tunable:
a light source capable of emitting light of varying hues to create white or colored light. combined heat and power system (CHP):
an on-site or off-site district energy conversion plant that delivers both electricity and thermal energy, where a portion or all of the thermal energy serves the building project.
commercial cooking appliance:
appliances used in a commercial food service establishment for heating or cooking food. For the purpose of this definition, a commercial food service establishment is where food is regularly prepared for sale or is prepared on a scale that is, by volume and frequency, not representative of domestic household cooking. commissioning (Cx) plan:
a document that outlines the organization, schedule, allocation of resources, and documentation requirements of the building commissioning process. (See commissioning [Cx] process.) commissioning (Cx) process:
a quality-focused process for enhancing the delivery of a project. The process focuses on verifying and documenting that the facility and all of its systems and assemblies are planned, designed, installed, tested, operated, and maintained to meet the owner’s project requirements. (See owner’s project requirements.) commissioning (Cx) provider:
an approved entity, identified by the owner, who manages the commissioning team to implement the building commissioning process. (See commissioning [Cx] process.) (Informative Note: This entity is sometimes known as a “commissioning authority,” “CxA,” or approved agency.) community renewable energy facility:
a facility that generates electricity energy with photovoltaic, solar thermal, geothermal energy, or wind energy systems, and is qualified as a community energy facility under applicable state and local utility statutes and rules. composite wood product:
hardwood plywood made with a veneer or composite core, particleboard, or medium density fiberboard (MDF). conditioned space:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. construction documents:
written, graphic, and pictorial documents prepared or assembled for describing the design, location, and physical characteristics of the elements of a project necessary for obtaining a building permit. contaminant:
see ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 62.1. continuous air barrier:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. daylight adaptation compensation:
a lighting control strategy that decreases the difference in illuminance levels between the outdoors and inside a building by reducing indoor illuminance levels at night and increasing illuminance levels during the day. daylight area:
area in an enclosed space that is in the primary sidelighted area, daylight area under roof monitors, or daylight area under skylights. daylight area under roof monitors:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. daylight area under skylights:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. daylight hours:
the period from 30 minutes after sunrise to 30 minutes before sunset. demand control ventilation (DCV):
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. demand responsive control:
a control capable of receiving and automatically responding to a demand response signal. demand response signal:
a signal that indicates a price or a request to modify electricity consumption for a limited time period. densely occupied space:
those spaces with a design occupant density greater than or equal to 25 people per 1000 ft2 (100 m2). designated park land:
federal-, state-, or local-government-owned land that is formally designated and set aside as park land or a wildlife preserve. design conditions:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. dimmer:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. district energy plant:
a centralized cooling or heating plant (e.g., centralized chiller or boiler plant) that distributes district heating or cooling to multiple buildings and loads, one of which is the building project. district energy system (DES):
a thermal energy system made up of one or more district energy plants and a district thermal distribution system. district heating or cooling:
heat transfer media, such as chilled water, hot water, or steam, produced by a district energy plant and transported via a district thermal distribution system. district thermal distribution system:
a system for transporting district heating or cooling from a district energy plant to the building project. The system includes all energy-consuming equipment involved with transport, including pumps, heat exchangers, water treatment, thermal losses, and pressure control. dwelling unit:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. dynamic glazing:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE): equipment for plug-in power transfer, including the ungrounded, grounded, and equipment grounding conductors; electric vehicle connectors; attachment plugs; personnel protection system; and all other fittings, devices, power outlets, or apparatus installed specifically for the purpose of transferring energy between the premises wiring and the electric vehicle. electric vehicle supply equipment installed space (EVSE space):
a vehicle parking space that is provided with a dedicated EVSE connection. electronics:
computers and accessories; monitors; printers; and other equipment, such as scanners, fax machines, electric typewriters, cell phones, telephones, answering machines, shredders, postage machines, televisions, VHS/DVD players, portable cassette/CD players with radio devices, and stereo equipment. emergency ride home:
access to transportation home in the case of a personal emergency or unscheduled overtime for employees who commute via transit, carpool, or vanpool. enclosed space:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. enthalpy recovery ratio:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. evapotranspiration (ET):
the sum of evaporation from soil and plant surfaces and transpiration of water through leaf stomata. ETc: evapotranspiration of the plant material derived by multiplying ETo by the appropriate plant factor or coefficient. ETo: reference evapotranspiration for a cool-season grass as calculated by the standardized Penman-Monteith equation based on weather station data. EV capable space:
a designated parking space to which raceways extend from a building that has the electrical distribution equipment capacity necessary for the future conversion of the parking space to an EV ready space. EV ready space:
a designated parking space provided with a 50 A, 208/240V dedicated branch circuit for Level 2 EVSE. The circuit includes an overcurrent protective device and terminates in a junction box or receptacle outlet located in close proximity to the proposed location of the EV parking spaces. facility for the visually impaired:
a facility that is designed to comply with the light levels specified in ANSI/IES RP-28 and is licensed or will be licensed by the authority having jurisdiction for senior long-term care, adult daycare, senior support, or people with special visual needs. fan energy index:
the ratio of the electric input power of a reference fan to the electric input power of the actual fan as calculated per AMCA 208. fenestration:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. fenestration area:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. fish and wildlife habitat conservation area:
areas with which state or federally designated endangered, threatened, or sensitive species have a primary association. forest land:
all designated state forests, national forests, and all land that is, or was, within ten years prior to the date of the building permit for the building project, primarily devoted to growing trees for long-term commercial timber production. functional and performance testing (FPT):
testing performed to ensure that designated systems of the project meet the intended design performance requirements. functional and performance testing provider (FPT provider):
an entity identified by the owner who manages the activities needed to implement the building functional and performance testing (FPT) activities. general lighting:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. generally accepted engineering standard:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. geothermal energy:
heat extracted from the Earth’s interior that is used to produce electricity or mechanical power or to provide thermal energy for heating buildings or processes. Geothermal energy does not include systems such as heat pumps that use energy independent of the geothermal source to raise the temperature of the extracted heat. greenfield:
a parcel of land of which 20% or less has been previously developed with impervious surfaces. greenhouse:
a space with a skylight roof ratio of 50% or more above the growing area, used exclusively for horticultural production, cultivation, or maintenance by utilizing a sunlit environment, that is erected for a period of 180 days or more. greyfield:
a parcel of land of which more than 20% is currently or has been previously developed with impervious surfaces. gross conditioned floor area:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. gross roof area:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. gross wall area:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. ground cover:
plantings other than turfgrass that are low-growing and form dense vegetation over the soil area. hardscape:
paved areas, including roads, driveways, parking lots, walkways, courtyards, and plazas. hardwood plywood:
a hardwood or decorative panel that is intended for interior use and composed of (as determined under ANSI/HPVA HP-1) an assembly of layers or plies of veneer, joined by an adhesive with a lumber core, a particleboard core, a medium density fiberboard core, a hardboard core, a veneer core, or any other special core or special back material. Hardwood plywood does not include military-specified plywood, curved plywood, or any plywood specified in PS-1, or PS-2. heat island effect:
the tendency of urban areas to be at a warmer temperature than surrounding rural areas. high-performance green building:
a building designed, constructed, and capable of being operated in a manner that increases environmental performance and economic value over time, seeks to establish an indoor environment that supports the health of occupants, and enhances satisfaction and productivity of occupants through integration of environmentally preferable building materials and water-efficient and energy-efficient systems. high-rise building:
a building with an occupied floor located more than 75 ft (23 m) above the lowest level of fire department vehicle access. high-speed door:
a nonswinging door used primarily to facilitate vehicular access or material transportation, and having an automatic closing device with an opening rate of not less than 32 in./s (810 mm/s) and a closing rate of not less than 24 in./s (610 mm/s). hourly average sound pressure level (Leq):
time-mean-square frequency-weighted sound pressure level for one hour. horticultural lighting:
electric lighting used for horticultural production, cultivation, or maintenance with either cord-and-plug or hard-wired connections for electric power. hydrozone:
an irrigated area of landscape in which the plants have similar water needs and are irrigated by the same type of emission devices. improved landscape:
any disturbed area of the site where new plant and/or grass materials are to be used, including green roofs, plantings for stormwater controls, planting boxes, and similar vegetative use. Improved landscape shall not include hardscape areas such as sidewalks, driveways, other paved areas, and pools or decking. indoor grow space:
a
space, other than a greenhouse, used exclusively for horticultural production, cultivation, or maintenance. integrated design process:
a design process using early collaboration among representatives of each stakeholder and participating consultant on the project. Unlike the conventional, or linear, design process, integrated design requires broad stakeholder/consultant participation. interior projection factor (PF):
see projection factor, interior. irrigation adequacy:
a representation of how well irrigation meets the needs of the plant material. This reflects the percentage of required water for turf or plant material supplied by rainfall and controller-scheduled irrigations. irrigation excess:
a representation of the amount of irrigation water applied beyond the needs of the plant material. This reflects the percentage of water applied in excess of 100% of required water. irrigation station:
a set of irrigation emission devices supplied water by a single control valve. Also referred to as an “irrigation zone.” isolation devices:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. labeled:
equipment, materials, or products to which has been affixed a label, seal, symbol, or other identifying mark of a nationally recognized testing laboratory, approved agency, or other organization concerned with product evaluation that maintains periodic inspection of the production of the above-labeled items and whose labeling indicates either that the equipment, material, or product meets identified standards or has been tested and found suitable for a specified purpose. laminated product:
product in which a wood or woody grass veneer is affixed to a particleboard core or platform, a medium-density fiberboard core or platform, or a veneer core or platform. lamp:
a removable, electrically operated light source that contains a base to provide an electrical connection between the lamp and luminaire. (Informative Note: LED light engines and LED retrofit kits are not considered lamps but are considered luminaires.) lamp efficacy:
the ratio of the total luminous flux of a lamp to the total power input to the lamp at full light output, typically expressed in lumens per watt. landscaped areas:
areas where the plant species selection and their specific location are by human design. landscape establishment period:
a time period, beginning on the date of completion of permanent plantings and not exceeding 18 months, intended to allow the permanent landscape to become sufficiently established to remain viable. Langelier Saturation Index (LSI):
a measure of a solution’s ability to dissolve or deposit calcium carbonate that is often used as an indicator of the corrosivity of water, calculated using the following formula:LSI=pH–pHs where:pH =
measured water pHpHs =
pH at saturation in calcium carbonate life-cycle assessment (LCA):
a compilation and evaluation of the inputs, outputs, and potential environmental impacts of a building system throughout its life cycle. LCA addresses the environmental aspects and potential environmental impacts (e.g., use of resources and environmental consequences of releases) throughout a building’s life cycle, from raw material acquisition through manufacturing, construction, use, operation, end-of-life treatment, recycling, and final disposal (end of life). The purpose is to identify opportunities to improve the environmental performance of buildings throughout their life cycles. lighting power allowance:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. lighting quality:
the degree to which the luminous environment in a space supports the requirements of the occupants. lighting zone (LZ):
an area defining limitations for outdoor lighting. LZ0:
undeveloped areas within national parks, state parks, forest land, rural areas, and other undeveloped areas as defined by the AHJ. LZ1:
developed areas of national parks, state parks, forest land, and rural areas. LZ2:
areas predominantly consisting of residential zoning, neighborhood business districts, light industrial with limited night time use, and residential mixed use. LZ3:
all areas not included in LZ0, LZ1, LZ2, or LZ4. LZ4:
high-activity commercial districts in major metropolitan areas as designated by the local jurisdiction. liner system (Ls):
an insulation system for a metal building roof that includes the following components. A continuous membrane is installed below the purlins and is uninterrupted by framing members. Uncompressed, unfaced insulation rests on top of the membrane between the purlins. For multilayer installations, the last rated R-value of insulation is for unfaced insulation draped over purlins and then compressed when the metal roof panels are attached. A minimum R-3 (R-0.5) thermal spacer block between the purlins and the metal roof panels is required unless compliance is shown by the overall assembly U-factor or otherwise noted. listed:
equipment, materials, products, or services included in a list published by an approved organization and concerned with evaluation of products or services that maintains periodic inspection of production of listed equipment or materials or periodic evaluation of services and whose listing states either that the equipment, material, product, or service meets identified standards or has been tested and found suitable for a specified purpose. low-impact trail:
erosion-stabilized pathway or track that uses natural groundcover or installed system greater than 50% pervious. The pathway or track is designed and used only for pedestrian and nonmotorized vehicles (excluding power-assisted conveyances for individuals with disabilities). luminaire:
a complete lighting unit consisting of lamp(s) or other light sources together with the housing designed to distribute the light, position and protect the light sources, and connect the light sources to the power supply. luminaire efficacy:
the ratio of the total luminous flux of a luminaire to the total power input to the luminaire at full light output. Luminaire efficacy accounts for luminous efficacy of the light source, thermal management, and optical efficiency and is typically expressed in lumens per watt. maintenance plan:
see maintenance program in ANSI/ASHRAE/ACCA Standard 180. maximum sound pressure level (Lmax):
greatest frequency-weighted and exponential-time-weighted sound level within a stated time interval. mechanical cooling:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. medium-density fiberboard:
a panel composed of cellulosic fibers made by dry forming and pressing a resinated fiber mat (as determined under ANSI A208.2).
nameplate rating:
the design load operating conditions of a device as shown by the manufacturer on the nameplate or otherwise marked on the device. multiscene lighting control:
a lighting control capable of two or more predefined lighting settings, in addition to all-OFF, for two or more groups of luminaires to suit multiple activities in the space. networked guest room control system:
an energy management control system, accessible from the hotel/motel front desk or other central location, that is capable of identifying reserved rooms according to a timed schedule and is capable of controlling each hotel/motel guest room separately. nonresidential:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. occupant load:
the number of persons for which the means of egress of a building or portion thereof is designed. occupiable space:
see ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 62.1. office furniture system:
either a panel-based workstation comprising modular interconnecting panels, hang-on components, and drawer/filing components, or a freestanding grouping of furniture items and their components that have been designed to work in concert. once-through cooling:
the use of water as a cooling medium, where the water is passed through a heat exchanger one time and is then discharged to the drainage system. This also includes the use of water to reduce the temperature of condensate or process water before discharging it to the drainage system. on-site renewable energy system:
photovoltaic, solar thermal, geothermal energy, and wind systems used to generate energy and located on any of the following:a.The building.b.The property upon which the building is located.c.A property that shares a boundary with and is under the same ownership or control as the property on which the building is located.d.A property that is under the same ownership or control as the property on which the building is located and is separated only by a public right-of-way from the property on which the building is located. open-graded (uniform-sized) aggregate:
materials such as crushed stone or decomposed granite that provide 30% to 40% void spaces. outdoor air fault condition:
a situation in which the measured minimum outdoor airflow of a ventilation system is 10% or more below the set-point value that corresponds to the occupancy and operation conditions at the time of the measurement. owner:
the party in responsible control of development, construction, or operation of a project at any given time. owner’s project requirements (OPR):
a document that specifies the functional requirements of a project and the expectations of how it will be used and operated, including project goals, measurable performance criteria, cost considerations, benchmarks, success criteria, training requirements, documentation requirements, and supporting information. parking garage daylight transition zone:
interior zone adjacent to covered vehicle entrances and exits from buildings and parking structures. The width of the parking garage daylight transition zone is not greater than 30 ft (9.1 m) to either side of the drive aisle centerline and not extended beyond adjacent walls. Where there is a control gate at the entrance or a straight run less than 160 ft (50 m) from the street into the parking garage entrance, the length of the parking garage daylight transition zone is not greater than 66 ft (20 m) inside the structure. For all other entrance configurations, the length of the parking garage daylight transition zone is no greater than the length of a straight drive aisle immediately inside the entrance or exit and no greater than 160 ft (50 m). particleboard:
a panel composed of cellulosic material in the form of discrete particles (as distinguished from fibers, flakes, or strands) that are pressed together with resin (as determined under ANSI A208.1). Particleboard does not include any product specified in PS 2, Performance Standard for Wood-Based Structural-Use Panels. permanently installed:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. permeable pavement:
pervious concrete or porous asphalt that allows the movement of water and air through the paving material and that is primarily used as paving for roads, parking lots, and walkways. Permeable paving materials have an open-graded aggregate with interconnected voids. permeable pavers:
units that present a solid surface but allow natural drainage and migration of water into the base below by permitting water to drain through the spaces between the pavers. photosynthetic photon efficacy:
photosynthetic photon flux between 400 and 700 nm emitted by a light source divided by its electrical input power, expressed in units of micromoles per second per watt (μmol/s/W) (micromoles per joule [μmol/J]) as defined by ANSI/ASABE S640. plants:
a.adapted plants:
plants that reliably grow well in a given habitat with minimal attention from humans in the form of winter protection, pest protection, water irrigation, or fertilization once root systems are established in the soil. Adapted plants are considered to be low maintenance but not invasive.b.invasive plants: species of plants that are included on an approved list of non-native plants that cause or are likely to cause environmental harm, and species of plants that are regulated by noxious weed laws. (Informative Note: Refer to Informative Appendix L for example lists of invasive plants for select locations.)c.native plants: plants recognized as native species by applicable city, county, state, or regional governmental bodies. Alternatively, plant species that occur or occurred without human introduction in, or within 200 miles (322 km) of, the site’s USEPA Level III ecoregion. pool:
any structure, basin, or tank containing an artificial body of water for swimming, diving, therapeutic use, or recreational bathing, that is not drained, cleaned or refilled for each use. porous pavers (open-grid pavers):
units where at least 40% of the surface area consists of holes or openings that are filled with sand, gravel, other porous material, or vegetation. postconsumer recycled content:
proportion of recycled material in a product generated by households or by commercial, industrial, and institutional facilities in their role as end-users of the product, that can no longer be used for its intended purpose. This includes returns of material from the distribution chain. (See recycled material.) preconsumer recycled content:
proportion of recycled material in a product diverted from the waste stream during the manufacturing process. Content that shall not be considered preconsumer recycled includes the reutilization of materials such as rework, regrind, or scrap generated in a process and capable of being reclaimed within the same process that generated it. (See recycled material.) primary sidelighted area:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. projection factor (PF):
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. projection factor (PF), interior:
the ratio of the horizontal depth of the interior shading projection divided by the sum of the height of the fenestration above the interior shading projection and, if the interior projection is below the bottom of the fenestration, the vertical distance from the bottom of the fenestration to the top of the farthest point of the interior shading projection, in consistent units. proposed building performance:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. proposed design:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. public way:
a street, alley, transit right of way, or other parcel of land open to the outdoors and leading to a street or transit right of way that has been deeded, dedicated, or otherwise permanently appropriated for public use and that has a clear width and height of not less than 10 ft (3 m). pump energy index (PEI):
ratio of the pump energy rating of a given pump type and model divided by the pump energy rating of the same pump type and characteristics minimally compliant with U.S. regulations. readily accessible: see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. recovered material:
material that would have otherwise been disposed of as waste or used for energy recovery (Informative Note:
e.g., incinerated for power generation) but has instead been collected and recovered as a material input, in lieu of new primary material, for a recycling or a manufacturing process. recycled content:
proportion by mass of recycled material in a product or packaging. Only preconsumer and postconsumer materials shall be considered as recycled content. (See recycled material.) recycled material:
material that has been reprocessed from recovered (reclaimed) material by means of a manufacturing process and made into a final product or into a component for incorporation into a product. (See recovered material.) registered design professional:
an individual who is registered or licensed to practice their respective design profession as defined by the statutory requirements of the professional registration laws of the state or jurisdiction in which the project is to be constructed. regulated energy use:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. renewable energy certificate (REC):
a market-based instrument that represents and conveys the environmental attributes of one megawatt-hour of renewable electricity generation and could be sold separately from the underlying physical electricity associated with the renewable energy resources; also known as “energy attribute” and “energy attribute certificate.” renewable energy power purchase agreement (PPA), financial:
a financial arrangement between a renewable electricity generator and a purchaser wherein the purchaser pays or guarantees a price to the generator for the project’s renewable generation. Also known as a “financial power purchase agreement” and “virtual power purchase agreement.” renewable energy power purchase agreement (PPA), physical:
a contract for the purchase of renewable electricity from a specific renewable electricity generator to a purchaser of renewable electricity. residential:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. resilient plants:
plants determined in an approved reference to be tolerant of local climate changes expected to affect the site. roof:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. roof area, gross:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. roof monitor:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. salvaged material:
material, component, or assembly removed in a whole form from a structure or site in which it was permanently installed and subsequently reused in the building project. seating:
task and guest chairs used with office furniture systems. secondary sidelighted area:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. semiheated space:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. sensible energy recovery ratio:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. service water heating:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. sidelighting:
daylighting provided by vertical fenestration mounted below the ceiling plane. sidelighting effective aperture:
the relationship of daylight transmitted through vertical fenestration to the primary sidelighted areas. The sidelighting effective aperture is calculated according to the following formula:Sidelighting effective aperture=∑Vertical fenestration area×Vertical fenestration VTArea of  primary sidelighted areawhere vertical fenestration VT is the visible transmittance of vertical fenestration as determined in accordance with NFRC 200. For products outside the scope of NFRC 200, VT is the solar photometric transmittance of the glazing materials as determined in accordance with ASTM E972. single-rafter roof:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. site-recovered energy:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. skylight:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. skylight effective aperture:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. smart controller (weather-based irrigation controller):
a device that estimates or measures depletion of water from the soil moisture reservoir and operates an irrigation system to replenish water as needed while minimizing excess. soil-gas retarder (system):
a combination of measures that retard vapors in the soil from entering the occupied space. solar energy system:
any device or combination of devices or elements that rely on direct sunlight as an energy source, including, but not limited to, any substance or device that collects sunlight for use in:a. Heating or cooling of a structure or building.b. Heating or pumping of water.c. Industrial, commercial, or agricultural processes.d. Generation of electricity. solar heat gain coefficient (SHGC):
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. solar reflectance index (SRI):
a measure of a constructed surface’s ability to reflect solar heat, as shown by a small temperature rise. A standard black surface (reflectance 0.05, emittance 0.90) is 0, and a standard white surface (reflectance 0.80, emittance 0.90) is 100. space:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. spatial daylight autonomy (sDA):
the percent of an analysis area that meets a minimum daylight illuminance level for a specified fraction of the hours per year (Source: IES LM 83). Spatial daylight autonomy is a metric quantifying annual sufficiency of ambient daylight levels in interior spaces. specular visible transmittance:
the fraction of incident flux (lumens) that passes directly through a surface or medium without scattering. SWAT:
smart water application technology as defined by the Irrigation Association. task lighting:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. tubular daylighting device:
a means to capture sunlight from a rooftop. Sunlight is then redirected down from a highly reflective shaft and diffused throughout interior space. turfgrass:
grasses that are regularly mowed and, as a consequence, form a dense growth of leaf blades, shoots, and roots. unregulated energy use:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. variable-air-volume (VAV) system:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. vendor:
a company that furnishes products to project contractors and/or subcontractors for on-site installation. verification:
the process by which specific documents, components, equipment, assemblies, systems, and interfaces among systems are confirmed to comply with the criteria described in the owner’s project requirements. (See owner’s project requirements.) vertical fenestration:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. videoconferencing space:
a room or area with permanently installed videoconferencing cameras, audio equipment, and playback equipment for both audio-based and video-based two-way communication. view fenestration:
fenestration that provides building occupants with a view to the outdoors or to an interior daylit atrium. wall:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. wall area, gross:
see ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1. water, alternate on-site sources of:
alternate on-site sources of water include, but are not limited to:a. Rainwater or stormwater harvesting.b. Air-conditioner condensate.c. Grey water from interior applications and treated as required.d. Pool filter backwash water.e. Cooling-tower blowdown water.f. Foundation drain water.g. Industrial process water.h. On-site wastewater treatment plant effluent. water, nonpotable:
water that is not potable water. (See water, potable.) water, potable:
water free from impurities present in amounts sufficient to cause disease or harmful physiological effects and conforming to the bacteriological and chemical quality requirements of the public health service drinking water standards or the regulations of the public health authority having jurisdiction. water, reclaimed:
nonpotable water derived from the treatment of waste water by a facility or system licensed or permitted to produce water meeting the jurisdiction’s water requirements for its intended uses, including, but not limited to, above-surface landscape irrigation. water-bottle filling station:
a plumbing fixture or fixture fitting that is controlled by the user for the sole intended purpose of dispensing potable water into a personal drinking water bottle. Such fixtures and fittings are connected to the potable water distribution system of the premises and can be stand-alone fixtures or integrated with another fixture. water factor (WF):
a. clothes washer (residential and commercial): the quantity of water in gallons (litres) used to wash each cubic foot (cubic metre) of machine capacity.b. residential dishwasher: the quantity of water use in gallons (litres) per full machine wash and rinse cycle. weatherproofing system:
a group of components, including associated adhesives and primers, that when installed create a protective envelope against water and wind. wetlands:
those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. This definition incorporates all areas that would meet the definition of “wetlands” under applicable federal or state guidance—regardless of whether they are officially designated, delineated, or mapped—including man-made areas that are designed, constructed, or restored to include the ecological functions of natural wetlands. zero carbon emissions factor (zCEF):
CO2e emissions of the proposed building compared to the CO2e
of the baseline building, as defined in by the performance rating method of ASHRAE Standard 90.1.
301.3 (3.3) Abbreviations and Acronyms.
μgmicrogramAHJauthority having jurisdictionANSIAmerican National Standards InstituteASEannual sunlight exposureBMSbuilding management systemBoDBasis of DesignBPFbuilding performance factorBtuBritish thermal unitBtu/hBritish thermal unit per hourBUGbacklight, uplight, and glarecfmcubic feet per minute (ft3/min)CH4methanec.i.continuous insulationCO2carbon dioxideCO2ecarbon dioxide equivalentcSTCcomposite sound transmission classCxcommissioningdBdecibeldbdry-bulbdBAdecibel, A-weightingdBCdecibel, C-weightingDCVdemand control ventilationDESdistrict energy systemDRdemand responseEISAEnergy Independence and Security ActEPActU.S. Energy Policy ActEPDenvironmental product declarationESCerosion and sedimentation controlETcevapotranspirationEToreference evapotranspirationEVSEelectric vehicle supply equipmentfcfootcandleFPTfunctional and performance testingftfootgalgallongpmgallons per minutehhourhahectareHIDhigh-intensity dischargeHVACheating, ventilation, and air conditioningHzhertzIAQindoor air qualityICCInternational Code CouncilIECCInternational Energy Conservation CodeIEQindoor environmental qualityIESIlluminating Engineering Societyin.inchI-Pinch-poundISRimpact sound ratingkgkilogramkmkilometrekVAkilovolt-amperekWkilowattkWhkilowatt-hourLlitrelbpoundLCAlife-cycle assessmentLCIlife-cycle inventoryLeqhourly average sound pressure levellmlumensLmaxmaximum sound pressure levelLPDlighting power densityLsliner systemLSILangelier Saturation IndexLZlighting zonemmetreMDFmedium density fiberboardMERVminimum efficiency reporting valuemgmilligrammimileminminutemmmillimetremphmiles per hourM&Vmeasurement and verificationN2Onitrous oxideNAnot applicableNAECANational Appliance Energy Conservation ActNICnoise isolation classNRnot requiredO&Moperations and maintenanceOPRowner’s project requirementsPaPascalPCIperformance cost indexPFprojection factorPPApower purchase agreementppmparts per millionRCRroom cavity ratioRECrenewable energy certificatessecondsDAspatial daylight autonomySHGCsolar heat gain coefficientSRIsolar reflectance indexSTCsound transmission classSWATsmart water application technologyT60reverberation time in secondsT&Dtransmission and distributionUSGBCUnited States Green Building CouncilVAVvariable air volumeVOCvolatile organic compoundVTvisible transmittanceWwattswbwet-bulbWFwater factoryryearzCEFzero carbon emissions factor
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
•
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.