======================================================================
Chapter 2 Reserved
======================================================================

Chapter 1 Scope And Administration - International Green Construction Code Code (IgCC)
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2024
International Green Construction Code Code (IgCC)
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2024 International Green Construction Code Code (IgCC) 2024 International Zoning Code (IZC) 2024 International Wildland-Urban Interface Code (IWUIC) 2024 International Swimming Pool and Spa Code (ISPSC) 2024 International Private Sewage Disposal Code (IPSDC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
I-Codes
/
2024 International Green Construction Code Code (IgCC)
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
2024 International Green Construction Code Code (IgCC)
favorite_border
Version:
Feb 2025
Contents
Notes
Insights
Overview
Copyright
Preface
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Section 101 Scope and General Requirements
Section 102 Applicability
Section 103 Code Compliance Agency
Section 104 Duties and Powers of the Authority Having Jurisdiction
Section 105 Permits
Section 106 Construction Documents
Section 107 Fees
Section 108 Inspections
Section 109 Certificate of Occupancy
Section 110 Means of Appeals
Chapter 2 Reserved
Chapter 3 Definitions, Abbreviations, and Acronyms
Chapter 4 Reserved
Chapter 5 Site Sustainability
Chapter 6 Water Use Efficiency
Chapter 7 Energy Efficiency
Chapter 8 Indoor Environmental Quality (Ieq)
Chapter 9 Materials and Resources
Chapter 10 Construction and Plans for Operation
Chapter 11 Normative References
Normative Appendix a Prescriptive Building Envelope Tables
Normative Appendix B Performance Option for Energy Efficiency
Normative Appendix C Building Concentrations
Normative Appendix D Long-Run Marginal Emission Rates
Informative Appendix E Building Envelope Tables
Informative Appendix F Integrated Design
Informative Appendix G Reserved
Informative Appendix H Zepi Conversion Methodology
Informative Appendix I Derivation of Source Energy Conversion Factors and Co2e Emission Factors
Informative Appendix J Additional Guidance for Functional Performance Testing (Fpt) and the Commissioning (Cx) Process
Informative Appendix K Requirements That Overlap with Core Elements of the Leed Rating System
Informative Appendix L Informative References and Bibliography
Informative Appendix M Option for Residential Compliance Using the National Green Building Standard
Informative Appendix N Addenda Description Information
Annex 1 Reference Standard Reproduction Annex Ashrae Standard 169
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
User notes:
About this chapter: Where the terms code official, building official, and authority having jurisdiction are used within this chapter, the terms are synonymous.
Section 101 Scope and General Requirements
101.1 Title.
These regulations shall be known as the Green Construction Code of [NAME OF JURISDICTION], hereinafter referred to as “this code.”
101.2 (2.3) General.
This code is intended to provide minimum requirements to be used in conjunction with the other codes and standards adopted by the jurisdiction. The requirements in this code shall not be used to circumvent any applicable safety, health or environmental requirements.
101.3 Scope.
The provisions of this code shall apply to the design, construction, addition, alteration, equipment, change of occupancy, relocation, replacement, demolition and removal of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected or attached to such buildings or structures and to the building site on which the building is located. Occupancy classifications shall be determined in accordance with the International Building Code.
101.3.1 (2.2) Applicability.
The provisions of this code do not apply to the following:1.Single-family dwellings.2.Multiple-family dwellings of three stories or fewer above grade.3.Manufactured houses (mobile homes).4.Manufactured houses (modular).5.Building projects that use none of the following:1.Electricity.2.Fossil fuels.3.Water.
101.3.2 Appendices.
INSIGHTS
Provisions in the appendices shall not apply unless specifically adopted.
INSIGHTS (2)
101.4 (1.1) Intent.
The intent of this code is to provide minimum requirements for the siting, design, construction and plans for operation of high-performance green buildings to: reduce emissions from buildings and building systems; enhance building occupant health and comfort; conserve water resources; protect local biodiversity and ecosystem services; promote sustainable and regenerative materials cycles; enhance building quality; enhance resilience to natural, technological, and human-caused hazards; and support the goal of development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.
101.5 (4.1 & 4.2) Compliance.
CDP
Building projects shall comply with this code. Within each of Chapters 5 through 9, building projects shall comply with all mandatory provisions (x.3) and, where offered, either the:1.Prescriptive Option (x.4) or2.Performance Option (x.5). Building projects shall also comply with all provisions of Chapter 10.Exceptions: 1.Compliance shall not be required with sections that are listed in Table 101.5.1 where the jurisdiction has opted out by checking “No” in the corresponding cell in the jurisdictional requirement column.2.Where the jurisdiction has indicated a diversion percentage for Section 501.3.8.1 in Table 101.5.1, that percentage shall replace the diversion percentage indicated in Section 501.3.8.1.
101.5.1 Jurisdictional options.
The jurisdictional options listed in Table 101.5.1 provide jurisdictions the flexibility to adopt the code in a manner that is best suited to meet their unique environmental and regional goals and needs. The informative symbol [JO] after the section number indicates jurisdictional option provisions.Table 101.5.1 may be used for the code adoption ordinance:1.Where “No” boxes are provided, the jurisdiction checks the box to indicate where that section is not to be enforced as a requirement in the jurisdiction. Where the “No” box is not checked, that section is adopted.2.Where a numerical value is listed to specify the level of performance, the jurisdiction shall indicate the required value to be adopted. Where a numerical value is not indicated, the value in the text is adopted without change. In addition to the jurisdictional options listed in Table 101.5.1, the code also provides for optional jurisdictional adoption of Informative Appendix G, Option for Energy Efficiency Using the IECC Prescriptive Compliance Path and Informative Appendix M, Option for Residential Compliance Using the National Green Building Standard. Where the jurisdiction adopts Appendix G, compliance with Sections 701.3 (7.3) and 701.4 (7.4) of this code shall be as specified in Appendix G.
TABLE 101.5.1 REQUIREMENTS DETERMINED BY THE JURISDICTION
SECTION
SECTION TITLE
JURISDICTIONAL REQUIREMENT
Chapter 5—Site Sustainability
501.3.1.2(a) [5.3.1.2(a)]
Prohibited Development Activity, Category IV building projects in a flood hazard area
__ No
501.3.3.3 (5.3.3.3)
Plant Resiliency
__ No
501.3.6 (5.3.6) Reduction of Light Pollution __No
501.3.7.2.2 (5.3.7.2.2) Bicycle Parking, Location __No
501.3.7.2.3 (5.3.7.2.3) Bicycle Parking, Horizontal Parking Racks __No
501.3.7.2.5 (5.3.7.2.5) Bicycle Parking, Security and Visibility __No
501.3.8.1 (5.3.8.1) Building Site Waste Management Plan [see in-text] __75%__ 50%
Chapter 6—Water Use Efficiency
601.3.1.2.1(a,3) [6.3.1.2.1(a,3)] Irrigation System Design, Master Valve __No
601.3.1.2.1(a,4) [6.3.1.2.1(a,4)] Irrigation System Design, Flow Sensors __No
601.3.4 (6.3.4) Special Water Features __No
601.3.5.3 (6.3.5.3) Consumption Data Collection __No
601.3.5.4 (6.3.5.4) Data Storage and Retrieval __No
601.3.9 (6.3.9) Dual Water Supply Plumbing __No
Chapter 7—Energy Efficiency
701.3.8 (7.3.8)
Electric Infrastructure
__No
701.4.2.1 (7.4.2.1) Building Envelope Requirements __No
701.4.2.3 (7.4.2.3) Single Rafter Roof Insulation __No
701.4.2.4 (7.4.2.4) High-speed Doors __No
701.4.2.6 (7.4.2.6) Permanent Projections __No
701.4.2.9 (7.4.2.9) Orientation __No
701.4.3.1 (7.4.3.1) Ventilation Controls for Densely Occupied Spaces __No
701.4.3.3 (7.4.3.3 Economizers __No
701.4.3. (7.4.3.4) Zone Controls __No
701.4.3.6 (7.4.3.6) Exhaust Air Energy Recovery __No
701.4.3.7 (7.4.3.7) Kitchen Exhaust Systems __No
701.4.4.2 (7.4.4.2) Insulation for Spa Pools __No
701.4.6.3.1 (7.4.6.3.1) Automatic Controls for Egress and Security Lighting __No
701.4.7.1 (7.4.7.1) Supermarket Heat Recovery __No
701.4.7.3 (7.4.7.3) Programmable Thermostats __No
701.4.7.4 (7.4.7.4) Refrigerated Display Cases __No
701.5.1.1 (7.5.1.1)
Higher Energy Credits Required
__No
701.6.2.2 (7.6.2.2)
Long-Run Marginal Emission Rates
__ 12 x 24 values (month-hour) __ 24 h values (annual hour)
701.6.4 (7.6.4) Energy Simulation Aided Design __No
Chapter 8—Indoor Environmental Quality
801.3.1.4.2 (8.3.1.4.2) Exfiltration __No
801.7.5 (8.7.5)
Interior Sound Reverberation __No
801.4.1.3 (8.4.1.3) Shading for Offices __No
Table 801.12 (Table 8.12)
Exterior View Space Types (2 through 5) 2. Enclosed offices and open-plan offices.
3. Conference, meeting, and multipurpose rooms except in convention centers.
4. Lounge or breakrooms.
5. Sleeping rooms in multifamily buildings and dorms not considered healthcare facilities.
__No__No__No__No__No
Chapter 9—Materials and Resources
901.6.2 (9.6.2)
Total Waste __No
Chapter 10—Construction and Plans for Operation
1001.4.4 (10.4.4)
Construction Activity Pollution Prevention: Protection of Occupied Areas __No
1001.11 (10.11) Service Life Plan __No
1001.12.2 (10.12.2) Transportation Management Plan, Owner-occupied Building Projects or Portions of Building Projects __No
1001.12.3 (10.12.3) Transportation Management Plan, Building Tenant __No
101.5.2 (4.3.2) Normative appendices.
The normative appendices to this code are considered to be integral parts of the mandatory requirements of this code, which for reasons of convenience are placed apart from all other normative elements.
101.5.3 (4.3.3) Informative appendices.
The informative appendices to this code, and informative notes located within this code, contain additional information and are not mandatory or part of this code except where specifically adopted by the authority having jurisdiction (AHJ).Informative note: Informative Appendices G and M are written in mandatory language suitable for inclusion in local codes where specifically adopted by the jurisdiction.
101.5.4 (4.3.4) Referenced standard reproduction annexes.
The referenced standard reproduction annexes contain material that is cited in this code but that is contained in another standard. The referenced standard reproduction annexes are not part of this code but are included in its publication to facilitate its use.
Section 102 Applicability
102.1 Code conflicts.
Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a specific requirement of this code, the specific requirement shall be applicable. Where, in any specific case, different sections of the code specify different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most practical requirement to meet the intent of the code shall govern.
102.2 Other laws.
CDP
The provisions of this code shall not be deemed to nullify any provisions of local, state or federal law.
102.3 Application of references.
References to chapter or section numbers, or to provisions not specifically identified by number, shall be construed to refer to such chapter, section or provision of this code.
102.4 Referenced codes and standards.
Where adopted by the authority having jurisdiction, the following codes shall be considered to be part of the requirements of this code: International Building Code, International Code Council Performance Code, International Energy Conservation Code, International Existing Building Code, International Fire Code, International Fuel Gas Code, International Mechanical Code, International Plumbing Code, International Property Maintenance Code, and International Residential Code.
102.4.1 Conflicting provisions.
Where the extent of the reference to a referenced code or standard includes subject matter that is within the scope of this code or the International Codes as adopted by the authority having jurisdiction listed in Section 102.4, the provisions of this code or the International Codes listed in Section 102.4, as applicable, shall take precedence over the provisions in the referenced code or standard.
102.4.2 Application of referenced standards.
The standards referenced in this code and listed in Chapter 11 shall be considered to be part of the requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of such reference. Where differences exist between the provisions of this code and a referenced standard, the provisions of this code shall apply. Informative references in Informative Appendix L are cited to acknowledge sources and are not part of this code.
102.5 Partial invalidity.
CDP
In the event that any part or provision of this code is held to be illegal or void, this shall not have the effect of making void or illegal any of the other parts or provisions.
102.6 Existing structures.
The legal occupancy of any structure existing on the date of adoption of this code shall be permitted to continue without change, except as is specifically covered in this code; and where adopted by the authority having jurisdiction, the International Building Code, the International Existing Building Code, the International Property Maintenance Code or the International Fire Code; or as is deemed necessary by the authority having jurisdiction for the general safety and welfare of building occupants and the public.
102.7 Mixed occupancy buildings.
In mixed occupancy buildings, each portion of a building shall comply with the specific requirements of this code applicable to each specific occupancy.
Section 103 Code Compliance Agency
103.1 Creation of agency.
The [NAME OF DEPARTMENT] is hereby created and the official in charge thereof shall be known as “the authority having jurisdiction (AHJ).” The function of the agency shall be the implementation, administration and enforcement of the provisions of this code.
103.2 Appointment.
The authority having jurisdiction shall be appointed by the chief appointing authority of the jurisdiction.
103.3 Deputies.
CDP
In accordance with the prescribed procedures of this jurisdiction and with the concurrence of the appointing authority, the authority having jurisdiction shall have the authority to appoint a deputy authority having jurisdiction, other related technical officers, inspectors and other employees as shall be necessary. Such employees shall have powers as delegated by the authority having jurisdiction.
Section 104 Duties and Powers of the Authority Having Jurisdiction
INSIGHTS
INSIGHTS (2)
104.1 General.
The authority having jurisdiction is hereby authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this code.
104.2 Determination of compliance.
CDP
The code official shall have the authority to determine compliance with this code, to render interpretations of this code and to adopt policies and procedures in order to clarify the application of this code’s provisions. Such interpretations, policies, and procedures: 1.Shall be in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code.2.Shall not have the effect of waiving requirements specifically provided for in this code or other applicable codes and ordinances.
104.2.1 Listed compliance.
CDP
Where this code or a referenced standard requires equipment, materials, products or services to be listed and a listing standard is specified, the listing shall be based on the specified standard. Where a listing standard is not specified, the listing shall be based on approved listing criteria. Listings shall be germane to the provision requiring the listing. Installation shall be in accordance with the listing and the manufacturer’s instructions, and where required to verify compliance, the listing standard and manufacturer’s instructions shall be made available to the code official.
104.2.2 Technical assistance.
To determine compliance with this code, the authority having jurisdiction is authorized to require the owner or owner’s authorized agent to provide a technical opinion and report.
104.2.2.1 Cost.
A technical opinion and report shall be provided without charge to the jurisdiction.
104.2.2.2 Preparer qualifications.
CDP
The technical opinion and report shall be prepared by a qualified engineer, specialist, laboratory or specialty organization acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction. The authority having jurisdiction is authorized to require design submittals to be prepared by, and bear the stamp of, a registered design professional.
104.2.2.3 Content.
The technical opinion and report shall analyze the properties of the design, operation or use of the building or premises and the facilities and appurtenances situated thereon, to identify and propose necessary recommendations.
104.2.2.4 Tests.
Where there is insufficient evidence of compliance with the provisions of this code, the authority having jurisdiction is authorized to require tests as evidence of compliance. Test methods shall be as specified in this code or by other recognized test standards. In the absence of recognized test standards, the authority having jurisdiction shall approve the testing procedures. Such tests shall be performed by a party acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction.
104.2.3 Compliance materials.
The authority having jurisdiction shall be permitted to approve specific computer software, worksheets, compliance manuals and other similar materials that meet the intent of this code.
104.2.4 Approved programs.
The authority having jurisdiction shall have the authority to deem a national, state or local program as meeting or exceeding this code. Buildings approved in writing by such a program shall be considered to be in compliance with this code.
104.2.4.1 Specific approval.
The authority having jurisdiction shall have the authority to approve programs or compliance tools for a specified application, limited scope or specific locale, including approval that is applicable to a specific section or chapter of this code.
104.2.5 Innovative approaches and alternative materials, design, and methods of construction and equipment.
CDP
INSIGHTS
The provisions of this code are not intended to prevent the installation of any material or to prohibit any design, innovative approach or method of construction not specifically prescribed by this code, provided that any such alternative is not specifically prohibited by this code and has been approved.
INSIGHTS (2)
104.2.5.1 Approval authority.
CDP
An alternative material, design, innovative approach or method of construction shall be approved where the authority having jurisdiction finds that the proposed alternative is satisfactory and complies with Sections 104.2.5 through 104.2.5.7, as applicable.
104.2.5.2 Application and disposition.
CDP
Where required, a request to use an alternative material, design, innovative approach or method of construction shall be submitted in writing to the authority having jurisdiction for approval. Where the alternative material, design, innovative approach or method of construction is not approved, the authority having jurisdiction shall respond in writing, stating the reasons the alternative was not approved.
104.2.5.3 Compliance with code intent.
CDP
An alternative material, design, innovative approach or method of construction shall comply with the intent of the provisions of this code.
104.2.5.4 Equivalency criteria.
CDP
An alternative material, design, innovative approach or method of construction shall, for the purpose intended, be not less than the equivalent of that prescribed in this code with respect to all of the following, as applicable:
1. Quality.
2. Strength.
3. Effectiveness.
4. Durability.
5. Safety, other than fire safety.
6. Fire safety.
104.2.5.5 Tests.
CDP
Tests conducted to demonstrate equivalency in support of an alternative material, design or method of construction application shall be of a scale that is sufficient to predict performance of the end use configuration. Tests shall be performed by a party acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction.
104.2.5.6 Reports.
INSIGHTS
Supporting documentation, where necessary to assist in the approval of materials or assemblies not specifically provided for in this code, shall comply with Sections 104.2.5.6.1 and 104.2.5.6.2.
INSIGHTS (2)
104.2.5.6.1 Evaluation reports.
CDP
Evaluation reports shall be issued by an approved agency, and use of the evaluation report shall require approval by the code official for the installation. The alternate material, design or method of construction and product evaluated shall be within the scope of the code official’s recognition of the approved agency. Criteria used for the evaluation shall be identified within the report and, where required, provided to the code official.
104.2.5.6.2 Other reports.
CDP
Reports not complying with Section 104.2.5.6.1 shall describe criteria, including but not limited to any referenced testing or analysis, used to determine compliance with code intent and justify code equivalence. The report shall be prepared by a qualified engineer, specialist, laboratory or specialty organization acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction. The authority having jurisdiction is authorized to require design submittals to be prepared by, and bear the stamp of, a registered design professional.
104.2.5.7 Peer review.
CDP
The authority having jurisdiction is authorized to require submittal of a peer review report in conjunction with a request to use an alternative material, design or method of construction, prepared by a peer reviewer that is approved by the authority having jurisdiction.
104.2.6 Modifications.
CDP
Where there are practical difficulties involved in carrying out the provisions of this code, the authority having jurisdiction shall have the authority to grant modifications for individual cases, provided the authority having jurisdiction shall first find that one or more special individual reasons make the strict letter of this code impractical, and that the modification is in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code and that such modification does not lessen the minimum requirements of this code. The details of the written request for and action granting modifications shall be recorded and entered in the files of the department of building safety.
104.3 Enforcement.
The authority having jurisdiction shall enforce compliance with the provisions of this code as part of the enforcement of other applicable codes and regulations, including the referenced codes listed in Section 102.4.
104.4 Inspections.
The authority having jurisdiction shall make inspections, as required, to determine code compliance, or the authority having jurisdiction shall have the authority to accept reports of inspection by approved agencies or individuals. The authority having jurisdiction is authorized to engage such expert opinion as deemed necessary to report on unusual technical issues that arise, subject to the approval of the appointing authority.
104.5 Right of entry.
CDP
Where it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of this code, or where the authority having jurisdiction has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in a structure or on a premises any conditions or violations of this code that make the structure or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the authority having jurisdiction shall have the authority to enter the structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect or to perform the duties imposed on the authority having jurisdiction by this code. If such structure or premises is occupied, the authority having jurisdiction shall present credentials to the occupant and request entry. If such structure or premises is unoccupied, the authority having jurisdiction shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner, the owner’s authorized agent or other person having charge or control of the structure or premises and request entry. If entry is refused, the authority having jurisdiction shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
104.5.1 Warrant.
CDP
Where the authority having jurisdiction has first obtained a proper inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, an owner, the owner’s authorized agent, occupant or person having charge, care or control of the building or premises shall not fail or neglect, after a proper request is made as herein provided, to permit entry therein by the authority having jurisdiction for the purposes of inspection and examination pursuant to this code.
104.6 Identification.
The authority having jurisdiction shall carry proper identification when inspecting structures or premises in the performance of duties under this code.
104.7 Notices and orders.
CDP
The code official shall issue all necessary notices or orders to ensure compliance with this code.
104.8 Official records.
CDP
The authority having jurisdiction shall keep official records as required by Sections 104.8.1 through 104.8.5. Such official records shall be retained for not less than 5 years or for as long as the building or structure to which such records relate remains in existence, unless otherwise provided by other regulations.
104.8.1 Approvals.
CDP
A record of approvals shall be maintained by the authority having jurisdiction and shall be available for public inspection during business hours in accordance with applicable laws.
104.8.2 Inspections.
CDP
The code official shall keep a record of each inspection made, including notices and orders issued, showing the findings and disposition of each.
104.8.3 Code alternatives and modifications.
CDP
Application for alternative materials, design and methods of construction and equipment in accordance with Section 104.2.5; modifications in accordance with Section 104.2.6; and documentation of the final decision of the authority having jurisdiction for either shall be in writing and shall be retained in the official records.
104.8.4 Tests.
CDP
The authority having jurisdiction shall keep a record of tests conducted to comply with Sections 104.2.2.4 and 104.2.5.5.
104.8.5 Fees.
CDP
The authority having jurisdiction shall keep a record of fees collected and refunded in accordance with Section 108.
104.9 Liability.
The authority having jurisdiction, member of the board of appeals or employee charged with the enforcement of this code, while acting for the jurisdiction in good faith and without malice in the discharge of the duties required by this code or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not thereby be rendered personally liable, either civilly or criminally, and is hereby relieved from personal liability for any damage accruing to persons or property as a result of any act or by reason of an any act or omission in the discharge of official duties.
104.9.1 Legal defense.
Any suit or criminal complaint instituted against any officer or employee because of an act performed by that officer or employee in the lawful discharge of duties under the provisions of this code or other laws or ordinances implemented through the enforcement of this code shall be defended by legal representatives of the jurisdiction until the final termination of the proceedings. The authority having jurisdiction or any subordinate shall not be liable for costs in any action, suit or proceeding that is instituted in pursuance of the provisions of this code.
104.10 Approved materials and equipment.
Materials, equipment, devices and innovative approaches approved by the authority having jurisdiction shall be constructed, installed and maintained in accordance with such approval.
104.10.1 Material, product and equipment reuse.
CDP
Materials, products, equipment and devices shall not be reused unless such elements are in good working condition and approved.
Section 105 Permits
105.1 Required.
Any owner or owner’s authorized agent who intends to construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish, or change the occupancy of a building or structure, or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert or replace any energy, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, the installation of which is regulated by this code, or to cause any such work to be done, shall first make application to the authority having jurisdiction and obtain the required permit under the applicable adopted code or regulation relevant to the intended work. Exemptions from permit requirements shall not be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in violation of the provisions of this code or any other applicable laws, codes or ordinances of this jurisdiction.
Section 106 Construction Documents
106.1 Information on construction documents.
Where adopted by the authority having jurisdiction, the content and format of construction documents shall comply with the International Building Code.
Section 107 Fees
107.1 Payment of fees.
A permit shall not be valid until the fees prescribed by law have been paid, nor shall an amendment to a permit be released until the additional fee, if any, has been paid.
107.2 Schedule of permit fees.
Where a permit is required, a fee for each permit shall be paid as required, in accordance with the schedule as established by the applicable governing authority.
107.3 Permit valuations.
CDP
INSIGHTS
The applicant for a permit shall provide an estimated value of the work for which the permit is being issued at the time of application. Such estimated valuations shall include the total value of work, including materials and labor, for which the permit is being issued, such as electrical, gas, mechanical, and plumbing equipment and permanent systems. In the opinion of the building official, where the valuation is underestimated, the permit shall be denied unless the applicant can show detailed estimates acceptable to the building official. The building official shall have the authority to adjust the final valuation for permit fees. INSIGHTS (2)
107.4 Work commencing before permit issuance.
CDP
Any person who commences any work before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to a fee established by the building official that shall be in addition to the required permit fees.
107.5 Related fees.
The payment of the fee for the construction, alteration, removal or demolition work done in connection to or concurrently with the work authorized by a permit shall not relieve the applicant or holder of the permit from the payment of other fees that are prescribed by law.
107.6 Refunds.
CDP
The building official is authorized to establish a refund policy.
Section 108 Inspections
108.1 General.
Construction or work for which a permit is required shall be subject to inspection by the authority having jurisdiction and such construction or work shall remain visible and able to be accessed for inspection purposes until approved. Approval as a result of an inspection shall not be construed to be an approval of a violation of the provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction. Inspections presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid. It shall be the duty of the owner or the owner’s authorized agent to cause the work to remain accessible and exposed for inspection purposes.Neither the authority having jurisdiction nor the jurisdiction shall be liable for the expense entailed in the removal or replacement of any material required to allow inspection.
Section 109 Certificate of Occupancy
CDP
109.1 Violations.
CDP
Issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall not be construed as an approval of a violation of the provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction.
Section 110 Means of Appeals
INSIGHTS
INSIGHTS (2)
110.1 General.
INSIGHTS
In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations made by the authority having jurisdiction relative to the application and interpretation of this code, there shall be, and is hereby created, a board of appeals. The board of appeals shall be appointed by the applicable governing authority and shall hold office at its pleasure. The board shall adopt rules of procedure for conducting its business and shall render all decisions and findings in writing to the appellant with a duplicate copy to the authority having jurisdiction. INSIGHTS (2)
110.2 Limitations on authority.
INSIGHTS
An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or an equivalent or better form of construction is proposed. The board shall not have authority to waive requirements of this code. INSIGHTS (2)
110.3 Qualifications.
INSIGHTS
The board of appeals shall consist of members who are qualified by experience and training to pass on matters pertaining to the provisions of this code and are not employees of the jurisdiction. INSIGHTS (2)
110.4 Administration.
INSIGHTS
The authority having jurisdiction shall take action without delay in accordance with the decision of the board. INSIGHTS (2)
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
•
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.