======================================================================
Chapter 10 Construction and Plans for Operation
======================================================================

Chapter 9 Materials And Resources - International Green Construction Code Code (IgCC)
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2024
International Green Construction Code Code (IgCC)
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2024 International Green Construction Code Code (IgCC) 2024 International Zoning Code (IZC) 2024 International Wildland-Urban Interface Code (IWUIC) 2024 International Swimming Pool and Spa Code (ISPSC) 2024 International Private Sewage Disposal Code (IPSDC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
I-Codes
/
2024 International Green Construction Code Code (IgCC)
Chapter 9 Materials and Resources
2024 International Green Construction Code Code (IgCC)
favorite_border
Version:
Feb 2025
Contents
Notes
Insights
Overview
Copyright
Preface
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Chapter 2 Reserved
Chapter 3 Definitions, Abbreviations, and Acronyms
Chapter 4 Reserved
Chapter 5 Site Sustainability
Chapter 6 Water Use Efficiency
Chapter 7 Energy Efficiency
Chapter 8 Indoor Environmental Quality (Ieq)
Chapter 9 Materials and Resources
Section 901 Materials and Resources
Chapter 10 Construction and Plans for Operation
Chapter 11 Normative References
Normative Appendix a Prescriptive Building Envelope Tables
Normative Appendix B Performance Option for Energy Efficiency
Normative Appendix C Building Concentrations
Normative Appendix D Long-Run Marginal Emission Rates
Informative Appendix E Building Envelope Tables
Informative Appendix F Integrated Design
Informative Appendix G Reserved
Informative Appendix H Zepi Conversion Methodology
Informative Appendix I Derivation of Source Energy Conversion Factors and Co2e Emission Factors
Informative Appendix J Additional Guidance for Functional Performance Testing (Fpt) and the Commissioning (Cx) Process
Informative Appendix K Requirements That Overlap with Core Elements of the Leed Rating System
Informative Appendix L Informative References and Bibliography
Informative Appendix M Option for Residential Compliance Using the National Green Building Standard
Informative Appendix N Addenda Description Information
Annex 1 Reference Standard Reproduction Annex Ashrae Standard 169
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
Chapter 9 Materials and Resources
Section 901 Materials and Resources
901.1 (9.1) Scope.
This section specifies requirements for building projects related to the environmental and human health impacts of materials, including resource conservation, reduced life-cycle impacts of building materials, impacts on the atmosphere, product transparency, and waste management.
901.2 (9.2) (Reserved.)
901.3 (9.3) Extracting, Harvesting, Manufacturing, and Reusing.
This section applies to all materials, products, and/or assemblies installed prior to the issuance of the final certificate of occupancy.Materials shall be harvested and/or extracted, and products and/or assemblies shall be manufactured, according to the laws and regulations of the country of origin.Wood products in the project, other than recovered or reused wood, shall not contain wood from endangered wood species unless the trade of such wood conforms with the requirements of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES).Informative Note: Reused materials are also addressed in Section 401.4.3 (4.4.3).
901.4 (9.4) Environmental Product Declarations and Global Warming Potential Reporting.
901.4.1 (9.4.1) Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs).
EPDs shall be submitted for building products that together represent not less than 25% of the total estimated costs of all building products permanently installed in the building project, or not fewer than 30 EPDs, and such that items (a) through (d) below are satisfied. EPDs submitted shall:a. represent building products that are permanently installed at the time of issuance of the certificate of occupancy;b. represent building products from not fewer than ten different manufacturers;c. represent not fewer than 20 different building products; andd. include any building products with a value that exceeds 5% of the total cost of all building products permanently installed in the building project. A value of 45% of the estimated total construction cost shall be permitted to be used in lieu of the total cost of all building products permanently installed in the building project.
901.4.2 (9.4.2) Environmental Product Declaration Requirements.
EPDs used to comply with Section 901.4.1 (9.4.1) shall be third-party verified Type III EPDs consistent with ISO 21930 or ISO 14025, with not less than a cradle-to-gate scope. Where an industry-wide or product-specific Type III EPD is not available for a building product, a critically reviewed third-party life cycle assessment report based on ISO 14040 and 14044 or third-party verified summary thereof shall be permitted as an alternative method for demonstrating compliance.Building product compliance shall be shown by submitting either a product-specific EPD or a regional- or industry-wide EPD. Each product-specific EPD shall be counted as one building product. Each regional- or industry-wide EPD shall be counted as half of a building product.Building products delivered to the building project site as a building product assembly comprising multiple components and ready for installation into the building project shall be considered a single building product. Compliance with Section 901.4.1 (9.4.1) shall be based on either:a. an EPD representing the building product assembly; orb. the individual building product component parts’ EPDs comprising not less than 80% of the building product assembly’s total cost or weight.
901.4.3 (9.4.3) Reporting of Global Warming Potential (GWP) Contribution.
For each of the building products with EPDs used to comply with Section 901.4.1 (9.4.1), the GWP reported in the applicable EPD as a declared unit or functional unit shall be multiplied by the number of declared units or functional units of the building product used in the building project. A report listing the results on a per building product basis and the total area of the building project shall be provided to the project owner and made available to the AHJ.
901.5 (9.5) Material Selection.
The building project shall comply with either Section 901.5.1 (9.5.1) or 901.5.2 (9.5.2).
901.5.1 (9.5.1) Reduced Impact Materials.
The building project shall comply with any one of the following: Sections 901.5.1.1 (9.5.1.1), 901.5.1.2 (9.5.1.2), 901.5.1.3 (9.5.1.3), or 901.5.1.4 (9.5.1.4). Calculations shall only include materials permanently installed in the project. A value of 45% of the total construction cost shall be permitted to be used in lieu of the actual total cost of materials.
901.5.1.1 (9.5.1.1) Recycled Content and Salvaged Material Content.
The sum of the recycled content and the salvaged material content shall constitute a minimum of 10%, based on cost, of the total materials in the building project.
901.5.1.1.1 (9.5.1.1.1) Recycled Content.
The recycled content of a material shall be the postconsumer recycled content plus one-half of the preconsumer recycled content, determined by weight (mass). The recycled fraction of the material in a product or an assembly shall then be multiplied by the cost of the product or assembly to determine its contribution to the 10% requirement.The annual average industry values, by country of production, for the recycled content of steel products manufactured in basic oxygen furnaces and electric arc furnaces shall be permitted to be used as the recycled content of the steel. For the purpose of calculating the recycled content contribution of concrete, the constituent materials in concrete (Informative Note: e.g., the cementitious materials, aggregates, and water) shall be permitted to be treated as separate components and calculated separately.
901.5.1.1.2 (9.5.1.1.2) Salvaged Material Content.
The salvaged material content shall be determined based on the actual cost of the salvaged material or the cost of a comparable alternative component material.
901.5.1.2 (9.5.1.2) Regional Materials.
A minimum of 15% of building materials or products used, based on cost, shall be regionally extracted/harvested/recovered or manufactured within a radius of 500 mi (800 km) of the project site. If only a fraction of a product or material is extracted/harvested/recovered or manufactured locally, then only that percentage (by weight) shall contribute to the regional value.Exception: For building materials or products shipped in part by rail or water, the total distance to the project shall be determined by weighted average, whereby that portion of the distance shipped by rail or water shall be multiplied by 0.25 and added to that portion not shipped by rail or water, provided that the total does not exceed 500 mi (800 km).
901.5.1.3 (9.5.1.3) Biobased Products.
A minimum of 5% of building materials used, based on cost, shall be biobased products. Biobased products shall:a. Comply with the minimum biobased contents of the USDA’s BioPreferred Program;b. Contain the “USDA Certified Biobased Product” label; orc. Be composed of solid wood, engineered wood, bamboo, wool, cotton, cork, agricultural fibers, or other biobased materials with at least 50% biobased content.
901.5.1.3.1 (9.5.1.3.1) Wood Building Components.
Wood building components, including but not limited to structural framing, sheathing, flooring, subflooring, wood window sash and frames, doors, and architectural millwork, used to comply with this requirement shall contain not less than 60% certified wood content tracked through a chain of custody process, either by physical separation or percentage-based approaches, or wood that qualifies as a salvaged material. Certified wood content documentation shall be provided by sources certified through a forest certification system with principles, criteria, and standards developed using ISO/IEC Guide 59 or the WTO Technical Barriers to Trade. Wood building components from a vendor shall be permitted to comply when the annual average amount of certified wood products purchased by the vendor, for which they have chain of custody verification not older than two years, is 60% or greater of their total annual wood products purchased.
901.5.1.4 (9.5.1.4) Third-Party Multi-Attribute Certification.
A material-specific assessment shall be submitted to the AHJ for a minimum of five different products installed in the building project at the time of issuance of certificate of occupancy in accordance with one or more of the following standards, where applicable. The assessment shall be certified as meeting the minimum performance level specified in each standard.a. ANSI/BIFMA e3.b. NSF/ANSI 140.c. NSF/ANSI 332.d. NSF/ANSI 336.e. NSF/ANSI 342.f. NSF/ANSI 347.g. NSC 373.h. ANSI A138.1.i. UL 102.
901.5.2 (9.5.2) Life-Cycle Assessment (LCA).
An LCA shall be performed in accordance with ASTM E2921 and ISO Standard 14044, as modified by this section, for a minimum of two building alternatives, both of which shall conform to the owner’s project requirements (OPR). For the purposes of Section 901.5.2 (9.5.2), values for GWP relative to CO2 shall be based on a 100 year time horizon when used for calculations, results, and comparisons.
901.5.2.1 (9.5.2.1) LCA Performance Metric.
The LCA shall demonstrate that the final building design achieves one of the following minimum improvements over the reference building design assessed in the LCA:a. Ten percent (10%) improvement in a minimum of each of two impact categories, one of which must be global warming.b. Five percent (5%) improvement in a minimum of each of three impact categories, one of which must be global warming. The following impact categories shall be used to determine compliance with this section and shall be included in the report described in Section 901.5.2.3 (9.5.2.3): land use, resource use, global warming, ozone layer depletion, human health effects, ecotoxicity, smog, acidification, and eutrophication.
901.5.2.2 (9.5.2.2) Procedure.
The LCA shall be performed in accordance with the service lives, life-cycle stages, study boundaries, and comparison methodologies of ASTM E2921 with the following modifications:a. Each building alternative shall comply with Sections 601 (6), 701 (7), and 801 (8) of this standard.b. The service life of the buildings shall not be less than that determined using Table 1001.11 (Table 10.11) except that the service life of long-life buildings shall be no less than 75 years.c. Operating energy consumption shall be included or excluded at the discretion of the project team.d. The LCA tool (or tools) or software shall include a published third-party impact indicator method.e. The estimate of structural system material quantities shall be verified by a registered design professional or other approved source. 901.5.2.3 (9.5.2.3) Reporting. A report that includes a description of the building alternatives and their physical differences shall be prepared and shall comply with the reporting requirements stated in ASTM E2921. The name and address of the registered design professional or other approved source verifying structural system material quantities shall be included. A critical review shall be performed by an external expert independent of those performing the LCA.The report shall be submitted to the AHJ and include documentation of critical peer review by a third party, results from the review, and the reviewer’s name and contact information.
901.6 (9.6) Construction and Demolition Waste Management.
901.6.1 (9.6.1) Diversion.
A minimum of 50% of nonhazardous construction, demolition, or deconstruction waste material shall be diverted from disposal in landfills and incinerators through reuse, recycling, repurposing, and/or composting. Excavated soil and land-clearing debris shall not be included in the calculation. Alternative daily cover and waste-to-energy incineration shall not be included as diverted material. All diversion calculations shall be based on weight throughout the construction process.
901.6.2 (9.6.2) [JO] Total Waste.
For new construction only, the total amount of construction waste generated prior to the issuance of the final certificate of occupancy on the project shall not exceed 20 lbs per ft2(100 kg per m2) of new building floor area. This shall apply to all waste, whether diverted, landfilled, incinerated, or otherwise disposed of. Excavated soil, land-clearing debris, and demolition debris shall not be included in the calculation. The amount of waste shall be tracked throughout the construction process in accordance with the construction waste management plan required in Section 901.6.3 (9.6.3).Exception: Projects where the waste diversion in accordance with Section 901.6.1 (9.6.1) is 75% or greater.
901.6.3 (9.6.3) Construction and Demolition Waste Management Plan.
Prior to the start of any construction, demolition, or deconstruction, a construction and demolition waste management plan shall be prepared and made available to the owner and AHJ. The plan shall do the following:a. Identify the construction and demolition waste materials expected to be diverted.b. Identify materials or building elements to be deconstructed.c. Indicate whether construction and demolition waste materials are to be source-separated or comingled.d. Identify service providers and designate destination facilities for construction and demolition waste materials generated.e. Identify the average diversion rate for facilities that accept or process comingled construction and demolition materials. Separate average percentages shall be included for those materials collected by construction and demolition materials processing facilities that end up as alternative daily cover and incineration. f. Specify a method for tracking.g. Specify a reporting mechanism for disposition of waste using items (a) through (f).
901.7 (9.7) Areas for Storage and Collection of Recyclables and Discarded Goods.
Areas for recyclables and discarded goods shall be provided as described in this section. These areas shall be coordinated with the anticipated collection services to maximize the effectiveness of the dedicated areas. Instructions regarding the identification and handling of recyclables and discarded goods in these areas shall be posted in or adjacent to each dedicated area.
901.7.1 (9.7.1) Recyclables.
There shall be areas that serve the entire building and are dedicated to the collection and storage of nonhazardous materials for recycling, including paper, corrugated cardboard, glass, plastics, and metals.
901.7.2 (9.7.2) Reusable Goods.
For building projects with residential spaces, there shall be an area that serves the entire building and is designed for the collection and storage of discarded but clean items in good condition. Charitable organizations or others to arrange for periodic pickups shall be identified and posted.
901.7.3 (9.7.3) Fluorescent and High-Intensity Discharge (HID) Lamps and Ballasts.
An area shall be provided that serves the entire building, is designed for the collection and storage of fluorescent and HID lamps and ballasts, and facilitates proper disposal and/or recycling according to jurisdictional hazardous waste requirements.
901.7.4 (9.7.4) Electronics and Batteries.
Separate containers or areas shall be provided that serve the entire building; are designed for the collection and storage of electronics, alkaline batteries, and rechargeable batteries; and facilitate disposal and/or recycling according to jurisdictional requirements.
901.8 (9.8) Refrigerants.
[Reserved for future use.]
901.9 (9.9) Mercury Content Levels of Lamps.
Electric lamps used in the building project shall not contain mercury in an amount exceeding, per lamp, the maximum mercury content levels of Table 901.9 (Table 9.9).Exceptions: 1. Eight-foot models of straight fluorescent T8 lamps.2. High-output and very-high-output, straight fluorescent lamps greater than 1.25 in. (32 mm) in diameter.3. Mogul bi-pin-based lamps.4. Preheat straight fluorescent lamps of any size.5. U-bend and circline fluorescent lamps.6. HID lamps.7. Induction lamps.8. Special-purpose lamps: appliance, black light, germicidal, bug, colored, grow, straight fluorescent reflector, reprographic, shatter resistant, cold temperature, and three-way lamps.
TABLE 901.9 (TABLE 9.9) MAXIMUM MERCURY CONTENT FOR ELECTRIC LAMPS
LAMP
MAXIMUM MERCURY CONTENT
Screw-base compact fluorescent lamps <25 W 4 mg
Screw-base compact fluorescent lamps ≥25 W and <40 W 5 mg
Pin-base compact fluorescent lamps, all wattages 5 mg
Straight fluorescent T5 normal lifetime lamps a 3 mg
Straight fluorescent T8 normal lifetime lamps a 4 mg
Straight fluorescent T5 and T8 long lifetime lamps b 5 mg
T12 eight-foot straight fluorescent lamps 15 mg
a. Electric lamps with a rated lifetime less than 25,000 h when tested on an electronic fluorescent ballast, including T8 instant-start ballasts and T5 programmed-start ballasts, and turned OFF and ON every three hours.b. Electric lamps with a rated lifetime equal to or greater than 25,000 hours when tested on an electronic fluorescent ballast, including T8 instant-start ballasts and T5 programmed-start ballasts, and turned OFF and ON every three hours.
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
•
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.