======================================================================
Chapter 2 Definitions
======================================================================

Chapter 1 Scope And Administration - International Private Sewage Disposal Code (IPSDC)
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2024
International Private Sewage Disposal Code (IPSDC)
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2024 International Private Sewage Disposal Code (IPSDC) 2024 International Code Council Performance Code (ICCPC) 2024 International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC) 2024 International Energy Conservation Code (IECC) 2024 International Existing Building Code (IEBC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
I-Codes
/
2024 International Private Sewage Disposal Code (IPSDC)
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
2024 International Private Sewage Disposal Code (IPSDC)
favorite_border
Version:
Aug 2024
Contents
Notes
Insights
Overview
Copyright
Preface
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Part 1—Scope and Application Section 101 Scope and General Requirements
Section 102 Applicability
Part 2—Administration and Enforcement Section 103 Code Compliance Agency
Section 104 Duties and Powers of the Code Official
Section 105 Permits
Section 106 Fees
Section 107 Construction Documents
Section 108 Notice of Approval
Section 109 Temporary Uses, Equipment and Systems
Section 110 Service Utilities
Section 111 Inspections
Section 112 Means of Appeals
Section 113 Violations
Section 114 Stop Work Order
Chapter 2 Definitions
Chapter 3 General Regulations
Chapter 4 Site Evaluation and Requirements
Chapter 5 Materials
Chapter 6 Soil Absorption Systems
Chapter 7 Soil Absorption Systems
Chapter 8 Soil Absorption Systems
Chapter 9 Mound Systems
Chapter 10 Cesspools
Chapter 11 Residential Wastewater Systems
Chapter 12 Inspections
Chapter 13 Nonliquid Saturated Treatment Systems
Chapter 14 Referenced Standards
Appendix A System Layout Illustrations
Appendix B Tables for Pressure Distribution Systems
Appendix C Board of Appeals
Index
Content Updates—Version 2
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
User notes:
About this chapter: Chapter 1 establishes the limits of applicability of this code and describes how the code is to be applied and enforced. Chapter 1 is in two parts: Part 1—Scope and Application (Sections 101 - 102) and Part 2—Administration and Enforcement (Sections 103 –114). Section 101 identifies which buildings and structures come under its purview and references other I-Codes as applicable. Standards and codes are scoped to the extent referenced (see Section 102.10). This code is intended to be adopted as a legally enforceable document and it cannot be effective without adequate provisions for its administration and enforcement. The provisions of Chapter 1 establish the authority and duties of the code official appointed by the authority having jurisdiction and also establish the rights and privileges of the design professional, contractor and property owner. Section 105 was revised and relocated to Section 104  for the 2024 edition. For clarity, the relocation marginal markings have not been included. For complete information, see the Relocations table in the Preface of this code.
QR code use:
A QR code is placed at the beginning of any section that has undergone technical revision. To see those revisions, scan the QR code with a smart device or enter the 7-digit code beneath the QR code at the end of the following URL: qr.iccsafe.org/ (see Formatting Changes to the 2024 International Codes for more information).
Part 1—Scope and ApplicationSection 101 Scope and general requirements
[A] 101.1 Title.
These regulations shall be known as the Private Sewage Disposal Code of [NAME OF JURISDICTION] hereinafter referred to as “this code.”
[A] 101.2 Scope.
Septic tank and effluent absorption systems or other treatment tank and effluent disposal systems shall be permitted where a public sewer is not available to the property served. Unless specifically approved, the private sewage disposal system of each building shall be entirely separate from and independent of any other building. The use of a common system or a system on a parcel other than the parcel where the structure is located shall be subject to the full requirements of this code as for systems serving public buildings.
[A] 101.2.1 Appendices.
Provisions in the appendices shall not apply unless specifically adopted.
[A] 101.3 Public sewer connection.
Where public sewers become available to the premises served, the use of the private sewage disposal system shall be discontinued within that period of time required by law, but such period shall not exceed 1 year. The building sewer shall be disconnected from the private sewage disposal system and connected to the public sewer.
[A] 101.4 Abandoned systems.
Abandoned private sewage disposal systems shall be plugged or capped in an approved manner. Abandoned treatment tanks and seepage pits shall have the contents pumped and discarded in an approved manner. The top or entire tank shall be removed and the remaining portion of the tank or excavation shall be filled immediately.
[A] 101.5 Failing system.
When a private sewage disposal system fails or malfunctions, the system shall be corrected or use of the system shall be discontinued within that period of time required by the code official, but such period shall not exceed 1 year.
[A] 101.5.1 Failure.
A failing private sewage disposal system shall be one causing or resulting in any of the following conditions:1.The failure to accept sewage discharge and backup of sewage into the structure served by the private sewage disposal system.2.The discharge of sewage to the surface of the ground or to a drain tile.3.The discharge of sewage to any surface or ground water.4.The introduction of sewage into saturation zones adversely affecting the operation of a private sewage disposal system.
[A] 101.6  Purpose.
The purpose of this code is to establish minimum  requirements to provide a reasonable level of safety health, property protection and  general welfare by regulating and controlling the design, construction, installation, quality of materials, location, operation and maintenance or use of private sewage disposal systems.
[A] 101.7 Severability.
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this code is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this code.
Section 102 Applicability
[A] 102.1 General.
Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall govern. Where, in any specific case, different sections of this code specify different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most restrictive shall govern.
[A] 102.2 Other laws.
The provisions of this code shall not be deemed to nullify any provisions of local, state or federal law.
[A] 102.3 Application of references.
Reference to chapter section numbers, or to provisions not specifically identified by number, shall be construed to refer to such chapter, section or provision of this code.
[A] 102.4 Existing installations.
Private sewage disposal systems lawfully in existence at the time of the adoption of this code shall be permitted to have their use and maintenance continued if the use, maintenance or repair is in accordance with the original design and no hazard to life, health or property is created by the system.
[A] 102.5 Maintenance.
Private sewage disposal systems, materials and appurtenances, both existing and new, and all parts thereof shall be maintained in proper operating condition in accordance with the original design in a safe and sanitary condition. Devices or safeguards that are required by this code shall be maintained in compliance with the edition of the code under which they were installed. The owner or the owner’s authorized agent shall be responsible for maintenance of private sewage disposal systems. To determine compliance with this provision, the code official shall have the authority to require reinspection of any private sewage disposal system.
[A] 102.6 Additions, alterations or repairs.
Additions, alterations, renovations or repairs to any private sewage disposal system shall conform to that required for a new system without requiring the existing system to comply with all the requirements of this code. Additions, alterations or repairs shall not cause an existing system to become unsafe, insanitary or overloaded.Minor additions, alterations, renovations and repairs to existing systems shall meet the provisions for new construction, unless such work is done in the same manner and arrangement as was in the existing system, is not hazardous and is approved.
[A] 102.7 Change in occupancy.
It shall be unlawful to make any change in the occupancy of any structure that will subject the structure to any special provision of this code applicable to the new occupancy without approval of the code official. The code official shall certify that such structure meets the intent of the provisions of law governing building construction for the proposed new occupancy and that such change of occupancy does not result in any hazard to the public health, safety or welfare.
[A] 102.8 Historic buildings.
The provisions of this code relating to the construction, alteration, repair, enlargement, restoration, relocation or moving of buildings or structures shall not be mandatory for existing buildings or structures identified and classified by the state or local jurisdiction as historic buildings when such buildings or structures are judged by the code official to be safe and in the public interest of health, safety and welfare regarding any proposed construction, alteration, repair, enlargement, restoration, relocation or moving of buildings.
[A] 102.9 Moved buildings.
Except as determined by Section 102.4, private sewage disposal systems that are a part of buildings or structures moved into or within the jurisdiction shall comply with the provisions of this code for new installations.
[A] 102.10 Referenced codes and standards.
The codes and standards referenced in this code shall be those that are listed in Chapter 14 and such codes and standards shall be considered to be part of the requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each such reference and as further regulated in Sections 102.10.1 and 102.10.2.Exception: Where enforcement of a code provision would violate the conditions of the listing of the equipment or appliance, the conditions of the listing and the manufacturer’s installation instructions shall apply.
[A] 102.10.1 Conflicts.
Where conflicts occur between provisions of this code and the referenced standards, the provisions of this code shall apply.
[A] 102.10.2 Provisions in referenced codes and standards.
Where the extent of the reference to a referenced code or standard includes subject matter that is within the scope of this code, the provisions of this code, as applicable, shall take precedence over the provisions in the referenced code or standard.
[A] 102.11 Requirements not covered by code.
Any requirements necessary for the proper operation of an existing or proposed private sewage disposal system, or for the public safety, health and general welfare, not specifically covered by this code, shall be determined by the code official.
Part 2—Administration and EnforcementSection 103 Code compliance agency
[A] 103.1 Creation of agency.
The [INSERT NAME OF DEPARTMENT] is hereby created and the official in charge thereof shall be known as the code official. The function of the agency shall be the implementation, administration and enforcement of the provisions of this code.
[A] 103.2 Appointment.
The code official shall be appointed by the chief appointing authority of the jurisdiction.
[A] 103.3 Deputies.
In accordance with the prescribed procedures of this jurisdiction and with the concurrence of the appointing authority, the code official shall have the authority to appoint a deputy code official, other related technical officers, inspectors and other employees. Such employees shall have powers as delegated by the code official.
Section 104 Duties and powers of the code official
[A] 104.1 General.
The code official is hereby authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this code.
[A] 104.2 Determination of compliance.
The code official shall have the authority to determine compliance with this code, to render interpretations of this code and to adopt policies and procedures in order to clarify the application of its provisions. Such interpretations, policies and procedures:
1. Shall be in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code.
2. Shall not have the effect of waiving requirements specifically provided for in this code.
[A] 104.2.1 Listed compliance.
Where this code or a referenced standard requires equipment, materials, products or services to be listed and a listing standard is specified, the listing shall be based on the specified standard. Where a listing standard is not specified, the listing shall be based on an approved listing criteria. Listings shall be germane to the provision requiring the listing. Installation shall be in accordance with the listing and the manufacturer’s instructions, and where required to verify compliance, the listing standard and manufacturer’s instructions shall be made available to the code official.
[A] 104.2.2 Technical assistance.
To determine compliance with this code, the code official is authorized to require the owner or owner’s authorized agent to provide a technical opinion and report.
[A] 104.2.2.1 Costs.
A technical opinion and report shall be provided without charge to the jurisdiction.
[A] 104.2.2.2 Preparer qualifications.
The technical opinion and report shall be prepared by a qualified engineer, specialist, laboratory or specialty organization acceptable to the code official. The code official is authorized to require design submittals to be prepared by, and bear the stamp of, a registered design professional.
[A] 104.2.2.3 Content.
The technical opinion and report shall analyze the properties of the design, operation or use of the building or premises and the facilities and appurtenances situated thereon to identify and propose necessary recommendations.
[A] 104.2.2.4 Tests.
Where there is insufficient evidence of compliance with the provisions of this code, the code official shall have the authority to require tests as evidence of compliance. Test methods shall be as specified in this code or by other recognized test standards. In the absence of recognized test standards, the code official shall approve the testing procedures. Such tests shall be performed by a party acceptable to the code official.
[A] 104.2.3 Alternative materials, design and methods of construction and equipment.
The provisions of this code are not intended to prevent the installation of any material or to prohibit any design or method of construction not specifically prescribed by this code, provided that any such alternative is not specifically prohibited by this code and has been approved.
Exception:
Performance-based alternative materials, designs or methods of construction and equipment complying with the International Code Council Performance Code.
[A] 104.2.3.1 Approval authority.
An alternative material, design or method of construction shall be approved where the code official finds that the proposed alternative is satisfactory and complies with Sections 104.2.3 through 104.2.3.7, as applicable.
[A] 104.2.3.2 Application and disposition.
Where required, a request to use an alternative material, design or method of construction shall be submitted in writing to the code official for approval. Where the alternative material, design or method of construction is not approved, the code official shall respond in writing, stating the reasons the alternative was not approved.
[A] 104.2.3.3 Compliance with code intent.
An alternative material, design or method of construction shall comply with the intent of the provisions of this code.
[A] 104.2.3.4 Equivalency criteria.
An alternative material, design or method of construction shall, for the purpose intended, be not less than the equivalent of that prescribed in this code with respect to all of the following, as applicable:
1. Quality.
2. Strength.
3. Effectiveness.
4. Durability.
5. Safety, other than fire safety.
6. Fire safety.
104.2.3.5 Tests.
Tests conducted to demonstrate equivalency in support of an alternative material, design or method of construction application shall be of a scale that is sufficient to predict performance of the end use configuration. Tests shall be performed by a party acceptable to the code official.
[A] 104.2.3.6 Reports.
Supporting documentation, where necessary to assist in the approval of materials or assemblies not specifically provided for in this code, shall comply with Sections 104.2.3.6.1 and
104.2.3.6.2.
[A] 104.2.3.6.1 Evaluation reports.
Evaluation reports shall be issued by an approved agency and use of the evaluation report shall require approval by the code official for the installation. The alternate material, design or method of construction and product evaluated shall be within the scope of the code official’s recognition of the approved agency. Criteria used for the evaluation shall be identified within the report and, where required, provided to the code official.
[A] 104.2.3.6.2 Other reports.
Reports not complying with Section 104.2.3.6.1 shall describe criteria, including but not limited to any referenced testing or analysis, used to determine compliance with code intent and justify code equivalence. The report shall be prepared by a qualified engineer, specialist, laboratory or specialty organization acceptable to the code official. The code official is authorized to require design submittals to be prepared by, and bear the stamp of, a registered design professional.
[A] 104.2.3.7 Peer review.
The code official is authorized to require submittal of a peer review report in conjunction with a request to use an alternative material, design or method of construction, prepared by a peer reviewer that is approved by the code official.
[A] 104.2.4 Modifications.
Where there are practical difficulties involved in carrying out the provisions of this code, the code official shall have the authority to grant modifications for individual cases, provided that the code official shall first find that one or more special individual reasons make the strict letter of this code impractical, and that the modification is in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code and that such modification does not lessen health, accessibility, life and fire safety or structural requirements. The details of the written request for and action granting modifications shall be recorded and entered in the files of the department of building safety.
[A] 104.2.4.1 Flood hazard areas.
The code official shall not grant modifications to any provision required in flood hazard areas as established by Section 1612.3 of the International Building Code, unless a determination has been made that:
1. A showing of good and sufficient cause that the unique characteristics of the size, configuration or topography of the site render the elevation standards of Section 1612 of the International Building Code inappropriate.
2. A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship by rendering the lot undevelopable.
3. A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety or extraordinary public expense; cause fraud on or victimization of the public; or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
4. A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief, considering the flood hazard.
5. Submission to the applicant of written notice specifying the difference between the design flood elevation and the elevation to which the building is to be built, stating that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced floor elevation, and stating that construction below the design flood elevation increases risks to life and property.
[A] 104.3 Applications and permits.
The code official shall receive applications, review construction documents, issue permits, inspect the premises for which such permits have been issued and enforce compliance with the provisions of this code.
[A] 104.3.1 Determination of substantially improved or substantially damaged existing buildings and structures in flood hazard areas.
For applications for reconstruction, rehabilitation, repair, alteration, addition or other improvement of existing buildings or structures located in flood hazard areas, the code official shall determine if the proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage. Where the code official determines that the proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage, and where required by this code, the code official shall require the building to meet the requirements of Section 1612 of the International Building Code or Section R306 of the International Residential Code, as applicable.
[A] 104.4 Right of entry.
Where it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of this code, or where the code official has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in a structure or on any premises a condition that is contrary to or in violation of this code that makes the structure or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the code official is authorized to enter the structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect or to perform the duties imposed by this code. If such structure or premises is occupied, the code official shall present credentials to the occupant and request entry. If such structure or premises is unoccupied, the code official shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner, the owner’s authorized agent or other person having charge or control of the structure or premises and request entry. If entry is refused, the code official shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
[A] 104.4.1 Warrant.
Where the code official has first obtained a proper inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, an owner, the owner’s authorized agent, occupant or person having charge, care or control of the structure or premises shall not fail or neglect, after a proper request is made as herein provided, to permit entry therein by the code official for the purposes of inspection and examination pursuant to this code.
[A] 104.5 Identification.
The code official shall carry proper identification when inspecting structures or premises in the performance of duties under this code.
[A] 104.6 Notices and orders.
The code official shall issue necessary notices or orders to ensure compliance with this code. Notices of violations shall be in accordance with Section 113.
[A] 104.7 Official records.
The code official shall keep official records as required by Sections 104.7.1 through 104.7.5. Such official records shall be retained for not less than 5 years or for as long as the building or structure to which such records relate remains in existence, unless otherwise provided by other regulations.
[A] 104.7.1 Approvals.
A record of approvals shall be maintained by the code official and shall be available for public inspection during business hours in accordance with applicable laws.
[A] 104.7.2 Inspections.
The code official shall have the authority to conduct inspections, or shall accept reports of inspection by approved agencies or individuals. Reports of such inspections shall be in writing and be certified by a responsible officer of such approved agency or by the responsible individual. The code official shall keep a record of each inspection made, including notices and orders issued, showing the findings and disposition of each.
[A] 104.7.3
Code alternatives and modifications.
Application for alternative materials, design and methods of construction and equipment in accordance with Section 104.2.3; modifications in accordance with Section 104.2.4; and documentation of the final decision of the code official for either shall be in writing and shall be retained in the official records.
[A] 104.7.4 Tests.
The code official shall keep a record of tests conducted to comply with Sections 104.2.2.4 and 104.2.3.5.
[A] 104.7.5 Fees.
The code official shall keep a record of fees collected and refunded in accordance with Section 106.
[A] 104.8 Liability.
The code official, member of the board of appeals or employee charged with the enforcement of this code, while acting for the jurisdiction in good faith and without malice in the discharge of the duties required by this code or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not thereby be rendered personally liable, either civilly or criminally, and is hereby relieved from personal liability for any damage accruing to persons or property as a result of any act or by reason of any act or omission in the discharge of official duties.
[A] 104.8.1 Legal defense.
Any suit or criminal complaint instituted against any officer or employee because of an act performed by that officer or employee in the lawful discharge of duties under the provisions of this code or other laws or ordinances implemented through the enforcement of this code shall be defended by legal representatives of the jurisdiction until the final termination of the proceedings. The code official or any subordinate shall not be liable for costs in any action, suit or proceeding that is instituted in pursuance of the provisions of this code.
[A] 104.9 Approved materials and equipment.
Materials, equipment and devices approved by the code official shall be constructed and installed in accordance with such approval.
[A] 104.9.1 Materials and equipment reuse.
Materials, equipment and devices shall not be reused unless such elements are in good working condition and approved.
Section 105 Permits
[A] 105.1 Where required.
Work on a private sewage disposal system shall not commence until a permit for such work has been issued by the code official.
[A] 105.1.1 Annual permit.
Instead of an individual construction permit for each alteration to an already approved system or equipment or appliance installation, the code official is authorized to issue an annual permit upon application therefor to any person, firm or corporation regularly employing one or more qualified tradespersons in the building, structure or on the premises owned or operated by the applicant for the permit.
[A] 105.1.2 Annual permit records.
The person to whom an annual permit is issued shall keep a detailed record of alterations made under such annual permit. The code official shall have access to such records at all times or such records shall be filed with the code official as designated.
[A] 105.2 Application for permit.
Each application for a permit, with the required fee, shall be filed with the code official on a form furnished for that purpose and shall contain a general description of the proposed work and its location. The application shall contain a description of the type of system, the system location, the occupancy of all parts of the structure and all portions of the site or lot not covered by the structure, and such additional information as is required by the code official. The maximum number of bedrooms for residential occupancies shall be indicated.
[A] 105.2.1 Preliminary inspection.
Before a permit is issued, the code official is authorized to inspect and evaluate the systems, equipment, buildings, devices, premises and spaces or areas to be used.
[A] 105.2.2 Time limitation of application.
An application for a permit for any proposed work shall be deemed to have been abandoned 180 days after the date of filing, unless such application has been pursued in good faith or a permit has been issued; except that the code official shall have the authority to grant one or more extensions of time for additional periods not exceeding 180 days each. The extension shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause demonstrated.
[A] 105.2.3 Previous approvals.
This code shall not require changes in the construction documents, construction or designated occupancy of a structure for which a lawful permit has been heretofore issued or otherwise lawfully authorized, and the construction of which has been pursued in good faith within 180 days after the effective date of this code and has not been abandoned.
[A] 105.2.4 Soil data.
Soil test reports shall be submitted indicating soil boring and percolation test data related to the undisturbed and finished grade elevations, vertical elevation reference point and horizontal reference point. Surface elevations shall be given for all soil borings. Soil reports shall bear the signature of a soil tester.
[A] 105.2.5 Site plan.
A site plan shall be filed showing to scale the location of all septic tanks, holding tanks or other treatment tanks; building sewers; wells; water mains; water service; streams and lakes; flood hazard areas; dosing or pumping chambers; distribution boxes; effluent systems; dual disposal systems; replacement system areas; and the location of all buildings or structures. Separating distances and dimensions shall be shown, including any distance to adjoining property. A vertical elevation reference point and a horizontal reference point shall be indicated. For other than single-family dwellings, grade slope with contours shall be shown for the grade elevation of the entire area of the soil absorption system and the area on all sides for a distance of 25 feet (7620 mm).
[A] 105.3 Permit issuance.
The application, construction documents and other data filed by an applicant for permit shall be reviewed by the code official. If the code official finds that the proposed work conforms to the requirements of this code and all laws and ordinances applicable thereto, and that the fees specified in Section 106.1 have been paid, a permit shall be issued to the applicant. A private sewage disposal system permit shall not be transferable.
[A] 105.3.1 Approved construction documents.
When the code official issues the permit where construction documents are required, the construction documents shall be endorsed in writing and stamped “APPROVED.” Such approved construction documents shall not be changed, modified or altered without authorization from the code official. Work shall be done in accordance with the approved construction documents.The code official shall have the authority to issue a permit for the construction of a part of a private sewage disposal system before the construction documents for the whole system have been submitted or approved, provided adequate information and detailed statements have been filed complying with all pertinent requirements of this code. The holder of such permit shall proceed at his or her own risk without assurance that the permit for the entire system will be granted.
[A] 105.3.2 Validity.
The issuance of a permit or approval of construction documents shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction. No permit presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this code shall be valid.The issuance of a permit based on construction documents and other data shall not prevent the code official from thereafter requiring the correction of errors in said construction documents and other data or from preventing building operations being carried on thereunder when in violation of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction.
[A] 105.3.3 Expiration.
Every permit issued by the code official under the provisions of this code shall expire by limitation and become null and void if the work authorized by such permit is not commenced within 180 days from the date of the permit, or if the work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned at any time after the work is commenced for a period of 180 days. Before such work can be recommenced, a new permit shall first be obtained and the fee therefor shall be one-half the amount required for a new permit for such work, provided that no changes have been or will be made in the original construction documents for such work, and provided further that such suspension or abandonment has not exceeded 1 year.
[A] 105.3.4 Extensions.
Any permittee holding an unexpired permit shall have the right to apply for an extension of the time within which the permittee will commence work under that permit where work cannot be commenced within the time required by this section for good and satisfactory reasons. The code official shall extend the time for action by the permittee for a period not exceeding 180 days if there is reasonable cause. No permit shall be extended more than once. The fee for an extension shall be one-half the amount required for a new permit for such work.
[A] 105.3.5 Suspension or revocation of permit.
The code official shall have the authority to suspend or revoke a permit issued under the provisions of this code wherever the permit is issued in error or on the basis of incorrect, inaccurate or incomplete information, or in violation of any ordinance or regulation or any of the provisions of this code.
[A] 105.3.6 Posting of permit.
The permit or a copy shall be kept on the site of the work until the completion of the project.
Section 106 Fees
[A] 106.1 Payment of fees.
A permit shall not be valid until the fees prescribed by law have been paid. An amendment to a permit shall not be released until the additional fee, if any, has been paid.
[A] 106.2 Schedule of permit fees.
Where work requires a permit, a fee for each permit shall be paid as required, in accordance with the schedule as established by the applicable governing authority.
[A] 106.3 Permit valuations.
The applicant for a permit shall provide an estimated value of the work for which the permit is being issued at time of application. Such estimated valuations shall include the total value of work, including materials and labor, for which the permit is being issued, such as electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing equipment and permanent systems. Where, in the opinion of the building official, the valuation is underestimated, the permit shall be denied, unless the applicant can show detailed estimates acceptable to the building official. The building official shall have the authority to adjust the final valuation for permit fees.
[A] 106.4 Work commencing before permit issuance.
Any person who commences any work on a private sewage disposal system before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to a fee established by the code official that shall be in addition to the required permit fees.
[A] 106.5 Related fees.
The payment of the fee for the construction, alteration, removal or demolition for work done in connection to or concurrently with the work authorized by a permit shall not relieve the applicant or holder of the permit from the payment of other fees that are prescribed by law.
[A] 106.6 Refunds.
The code official is authorized to establish a refund policy.
Section 107 Construction documents
[A] 107.1 Construction documents.
An application for a permit shall be accompanied by not less than two copies of construction documents drawn to scale, or in a digital format where allowed by the building official, with sufficient clarity and detail dimensions showing the nature and character of the work to be performed. Specifications shall include pumps and controls, dose volume, elevation differences (vertical lift), pipe friction loss, pump performance curve, pump model and pump manufacturer. The code official is permitted to waive the requirements for filing construction documents where the work involved is of a minor nature. Where the quality of the materials is essential for conformity to this code, specific information shall be given to establish such quality, and this code shall not be cited, or the term “legal” or its equivalent used as a substitute for specific information.
[A] 107.2 Retention of construction documents.
One set of approved construction documents shall be retained by the code official for a period of not less than 180 days from date of completion of the permitted work, or as required by state or local laws. One set of approved construction documents shall be returned to the applicant, and said set shall be kept on the site of the building or work at all times during which the work authorized thereby is in progress.
Section 108 Notice of approval
[A] 108.1 Approval.
After the prescribed inspections indicate that the work complies in all respects with this code, a notice of approval shall be issued by the code official.
[A] 108.1.1 Revocation.
The code official is authorized to, in writing, suspend or revoke a notice of approval issued under the provisions of this code wherever the notice is issued in error, on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or where it is determined that the building or structure, premise or portion thereof is in violation of any ordinance or regulation or any of the provisions of this code.
Section 109 Temporary uses, equipment and systems
[A] 109.1 General.
The code official is authorized to issue a permit for temporary uses, equipment, or systems. Such permits shall be limited as to time of service, but shall not be permitted for more than 180 days. The code official is authorized to grant extensions for demonstrated cause.
[A] 109.2 Conformance.
Temporary uses, equipment and systems shall conform to the requirements of this code as necessary to ensure health, safety and general welfare.
[A] 109.3 Temporary utilities.
The code official is authorized to give permission to temporarily supply service utilities in accordance with Section 110.
[A] 109.4 Termination of approval.
The code official is authorized to terminate such permit for temporary uses, equipment or system and to order the same to be discontinued.
Section 110 Service utilities
[A] 110.1 Connection of service utilities.
No person shall make connections from a utility, source of energy, fuel or power to any building or system that is regulated by this code for which a permit is required until authorized by the code official.
[A] 110.2 Temporary connection.
The code official shall have the authority to authorize the temporary connection of the building or system to the utility, source of energy, fuel, water system or sewer system for the purpose of testing systems or for use under a temporary approval.
[A] 110.3 Authority to disconnect service utilities.
The code official shall have the authority to authorize disconnection of utility service to the building, structure or system regulated by this code and the referenced codes and standards in case of emergency where necessary to eliminate an immediate hazard to life or property or where such utility connection has been made without the approval required by Section 110.1 or
110.2. The code official shall notify the serving utility, and wherever possible the owner or the owner’s authorized agent and occupant of the building, structure or service system of the decision to disconnect prior to taking such action. If not notified prior to disconnecting, the owner, the owner’s authorized agent or occupant of the building, structure or service system shall be notified in writing, as soon as practical thereafter.
Section 111 Inspections
[A] 111.1 Required inspections.
After issuing a permit, the code official shall conduct inspections from time to time during and upon completion of the work for which a permit has been issued. A record of all such examinations and inspections and of all violations of this code shall be maintained by the code official.
[A] 111.1.1 Concealed work.
It shall be the duty of the permit applicant to cause the work to remain visible and able to be accessed for inspection purposes. Neither the code official nor the jurisdiction shall be liable for expense entailed in the removal or replacement of any material required to allow inspection.
[A] 111.1.2 Other inspections.
The code official is authorized to make or require other inspections to ascertain compliance with the provisions of this code and other laws that are enforced by the department.
[A] 111.1.3 Approved inspection agencies.
The code official shall accept reports of approved inspection agencies provided that such agencies satisfy the requirements as to qualifications and reliability.
[A] 111.2 Special inspections.
Special inspections of alternative engineered design private sewage disposal systems shall be conducted in accordance with Sections 111.2.1 and 111.2.2.
[A] 111.2.1 Periodic inspection.
The registered design professional or designated inspector shall periodically inspect and observe the alternative engineered design to determine that the installation is in accordance with the approved plans. Discrepancies shall be brought to the immediate attention of the private sewage disposal system contractor for correction. Records shall be kept of all inspections.
[A] 111.2.2 Written report.
The registered design professional shall submit a final report in writing to the code official upon completion of the installation, certifying that the alternative engineered design conforms to the approved construction documents. A notice of approval for the private sewage disposal system shall not be issued until a written certification has been submitted.
[A] 111.3 Contractor’s responsibilities.
It shall be the duty of every contractor who enters into contracts for the installation or repair of private sewage disposal systems for which a permit is required to comply with adopted state and local rules and regulations concerning licensing.
[A] 111.3.1 Inspection requests.
It shall be the duty of the holder of the permit or their duly authorized agent to notify the code official when work is ready for inspection. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to provide access to and means for inspections of such work that is required by this code.
[A] 111.4 Approval required.
Work shall not be done beyond the point indicated in each successive inspection without first obtaining the approval of the code official. The code official, upon notification, shall make the requested inspections and shall either indicate the portion of the construction that is satisfactory as completed, or notify the permit holder or his or her agent wherein the same fails to comply with this code. Any portions that do not comply shall be corrected and such portion shall not be covered or concealed until authorized by the code official.
[A] 111.5 Evaluation and follow-up inspection services.
Prior to the approval of a prefabricated construction assembly having concealed work and the issuance of a permit, the code official shall require the submittal of an evaluation report on each prefabricated construction assembly, indicating the complete details of the private sewage disposal system, including a description of the system and its components, the basis on which the system is being evaluated, test results and similar information and other data as necessary for the code official to determine conformance to this code.
[A] 111.5.1 Evaluation service.
The code official shall designate the evaluation service of an approved agency as the evaluation agency, and review such agency’s evaluation report for adequacy and conformance to this code.
[A] 111.5.2 Follow-up inspection.
Except where ready access is provided to private sewage disposal systems, service equipment and accessories for complete inspection at the site without disassembly or dismantling, the code official shall conduct the in-plant inspections as frequently as necessary to ensure conformance to the approved evaluation report or shall designate an independent, approved inspection agency to conduct such inspections. The inspection agency shall furnish the code official with the follow-up inspection manual and a report of inspections on request, and the installation shall have an identifying label permanently affixed to the system indicating that factory inspections have been performed.
[A] 111.5.3 Test and inspection records.
Required test and inspection records shall be available to the code official at all times during the fabrication of the installation and the erection of the building; or such records as the code official designates shall be filed.
[A] 111.6 Testing.
Installations shall be tested as required in this code and in accordance with Sections 111.6.1 through 111.6.3. Tests shall be made by the permit holder and observed by the code official.
[A] 111.6.1 New, altered, extended or repaired installations.
New installations and parts of existing installations that have been altered, extended, renovated or repaired shall be tested as prescribed herein to disclose leaks and defects.
[A] 111.6.2 Apparatus, instruments, material and labor for tests.
Apparatus, instruments, material and labor required for testing an installation or part thereof shall be furnished by the permit holder.
[A] 111.6.3 Reinspection and testing.
Where any work or installation does not pass an initial test or inspection, the necessary corrections shall be made so as to achieve compliance with this code. The work or installation shall then be resubmitted to the code official for inspection and testing.
Section 112 Means of appeals
[A] 112.1 General.
In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations made by the code official relative to the application and interpretation of this code, there shall be and is hereby created a board of appeals. The board of appeals shall be appointed by the applicable governing authority and shall hold office at its pleasure. The board shall adopt rules of procedure for conducting its business and shall render all decisions and findings in writing to the appellant with a duplicate copy to the code official.
112.2 Limitations on authority.
An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply or an equivalent or better form of construction is proposed. The board shall not have authority to waive requirements of this code.
[A] 112.3 Qualifications.
The board of appeals shall consist of members who are qualified by experience and training on matters pertaining to the provisions of this code and are not employees of the jurisdiction.
[A] 112.4 Administration.
The code official shall take action without delay in accordance with the decision of the board.
Section 113 Violations
[A] 113.1 Unlawful acts.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect, construct, alter, repair, remove, demolish or use any private sewage disposal system, or cause same to be done, in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of this code.
[A] 113.2 Notice of violation.
The code official shall serve a notice of violation or order to the person responsible for the erection, installation, alteration, extension, repair, removal or demolition of private sewage disposal work in violation of the provisions of this code; in violation of a detailed statement or the approved construction documents thereunder or in violation of a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code. Such order shall direct the discontinuance of the illegal action or condition and the abatement of the violation.
[A] 113.3 Prosecution of violation.
If the notice of violation is not complied with promptly, the code official shall request the legal counsel of the jurisdiction to institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to require the removal or termination of the unlawful system in violation of the provisions of this code or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto.
[A] 113.4 Violation penalties.
Any person who shall violate a provision of this code or fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall erect, install, alter or repair private sewage disposal work in violation of the approved construction documents or directive of the code official, or of a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a [SPECIFY OFFENSE], punishable by a fine of not more than [AMOUNT] dollars or by imprisonment not exceeding [NUMBER OF DAYS], or both such fine and imprisonment. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
[A] 113.5 Abatement of violation.
The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude the legal officer of the jurisdiction from instituting appropriate action to prevent unlawful construction or to restrain, correct or abate a violation; to prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises or to stop an illegal act, conduct, business or use of the private sewage disposal system on or about any premises.
[A] 113.6 Unsafe systems.
Any private sewage disposal system regulated by this code that is unsafe or constitutes a health hazard, insanitary condition or is otherwise dangerous to human life is hereby declared unsafe. Any use of private sewage disposal systems regulated by this code constituting a hazard to safety, health or public welfare by reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, disaster, damage or abandonment is hereby declared an unsafe use. Any such unsafe equipment is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal.
[A] 113.6.1 Authority to condemn equipment.
Where the code official determines that any private sewage disposal system, or portion thereof, regulated by this code has become hazardous to life, health or property or has become insanitary, the code official shall order in writing that such system be either removed or restored to a safe or sanitary condition. A time limit for compliance with such order shall be specified in the written notice. A defective private sewage disposal system shall not be used or maintained after receiving such notice. Where such system is to be disconnected, written notice as prescribed in Section 113.2 shall be given. In cases of immediate danger to life or property, such disconnection shall be made immediately without such notice.
[A] 113.6.2 Authority to disconnect service utilities.
The code official shall have the authority to authorize disconnection of utility service in accordance with Section 110.3.
Section 114 Stop work order
[A] 114.1 Authority.
Where the code official finds any work regulated by this code being performed in a manner contrary to the provisions of this code or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, the code official is authorized to issue a stop work order.
[A] 114.2 Issuance.
The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, the owner’s authorized agent or the person performing the work. Upon issuance of a stop work order, the cited work shall immediately cease. The stop work order shall state the reason for the order and the conditions under which the cited work is authorized to resume.
[A] 114.3 Emergencies.
Where an emergency exists, the code official shall not be required to give a written notice prior to stopping the work.
[A] 114.4 Failure to comply.
Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to fines established by the authority having jurisdiction.
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
I-Codes • 2024
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.