======================================================================
Chapter 5 Materials
======================================================================

Chapter 4 Site Evaluation And Requirements - International Private Sewage Disposal Code (IPSDC)
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2024
International Private Sewage Disposal Code (IPSDC)
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2024 International Private Sewage Disposal Code (IPSDC) 2024 International Code Council Performance Code (ICCPC) 2024 International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC) 2024 International Energy Conservation Code (IECC) 2024 International Existing Building Code (IEBC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
I-Codes
/
2024 International Private Sewage Disposal Code (IPSDC)
Chapter 4 Site Evaluation and Requirements
2024 International Private Sewage Disposal Code (IPSDC)
favorite_border
Version:
Aug 2024
Contents
Notes
Insights
Overview
Copyright
Preface
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Chapter 2 Definitions
Chapter 3 General Regulations
Chapter 4 Site Evaluation and Requirements
Section 401 General
Section 402 Slope
Section 403 Soil Borings and Evaluation
Section 404 Percolation or Permeability Evaluation
Section 405 Soil Verification
Section 406 Site Requirements
Chapter 5 Materials
Chapter 6 Soil Absorption Systems
Chapter 7 Soil Absorption Systems
Chapter 8 Soil Absorption Systems
Chapter 9 Mound Systems
Chapter 10 Cesspools
Chapter 11 Residential Wastewater Systems
Chapter 12 Inspections
Chapter 13 Nonliquid Saturated Treatment Systems
Chapter 14 Referenced Standards
Appendix A System Layout Illustrations
Appendix B Tables for Pressure Distribution Systems
Appendix C Board of Appeals
Index
Content Updates—Version 2
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
Chapter 4 Site Evaluation and Requirements
User notes:
About this chapter: Disposal systems covered in this code rely on the subsurface soil′s abilities to accept the nonpotable water that is discharged by the treatment methods described in the code. Chapter 4 provides the methods for the evaluation of the soil in the planned disposal area.
Section 401 General
CDP
401.1 Scope.
CDP
The provisions of this chapter shall govern the evaluation of and requirements for private sewage disposal system sites.
401.2 Site evaluation.
CDP
Site evaluation shall include soil conditions, properties and permeability, depth to zones of soil saturation, depth to bedrock, slope, landscape position, all setback requirements and the presence of flood hazard areas. Soil test data shall relate to the undisturbed elevations, and a vertical elevation reference point or benchmark shall be established. Evaluation data shall be reported on approved forms. Reports shall be filed within 30 days of the completion of testing for all sites investigated.
401.3 Replacement system area.
On each parcel of land being initially developed, sufficient area of suitable soils based on the soil tests and system location and site requirements of this code for one replacement system shall be established. Where bore hole test data in the replacement system area are equivalent to data in the proposed system area, the percolation test is not required.
401.3.1 Nonconforming site conditions.
Where site conditions do not permit replacement systems in accordance with this code and an alternative system is used, the alternative system shall be approved in accordance with Section 105.
401.3.2 Undisturbed site.
The replacement system shall not be disturbed to the extent that the site area is no longer suitable. The replacement system area shall not be used for construction of buildings, parking lots or parking areas, below-ground swimming pools or any other use that will adversely affect the replacement area.
Section 402 Slope
402.1 General.
A conventional soil absorption system shall not be located on land with a slope greater than 20 percent. A conventional soil absorption system shall be located not less than 20 feet (6096 mm) from the crown of land with a slope greater than 20 percent, except where the top of the aggregate of a system is at or below the bottom of an adjacent roadside ditch. Where a more restrictive land slope is to be observed for a soil absorption system, other than a conventional soil absorption system, the more restrictive land slope specified in the design sections of this code shall apply.
Section 403 Soil borings and evaluation
403.1 Soil borings and profile descriptions.
Soil borings shall be conducted on all sites, regardless of the type of private sewage system planned to serve the parcel. Borings shall extend not less than 3 feet (914 mm) below the bottom of the proposed system. Borings shall be of sufficient size and extent to determine the soil characteristics important to an on-site liquid waste disposal system. Borehole data shall be used to determine the suitability of soils at the site with respect to zones of seasonal or permanent soil saturation and the depth to bedrock. Borings shall be conducted prior to percolation tests to determine whether the soils are suitable to warrant such tests and, if suitable, at what depth percolation tests shall be conducted. The use of power augers for soil borings is prohibited. Soil borings shall be conducted and reported in accordance with Sections 403.1.1 through 403.1.5. Where it is not practical to have borings made with a backhoe, such borings shall be augered or dug by hand.
403.1.1 Number.
There shall be not less than three borings per soil absorption site. Where necessary, more soil borings shall be made for an accurate evaluation of a site. Borings shall be constructed to a depth of not less than 3 feet (914 mm) below the proposed depth of the system.Exception: On new parcels, the requirement of six borings (three for initial area and three for replacement area) shall be reduced to five where the initial and replacement system areas are contiguous and one boring is made on each outer corner of the contiguous area and the fifth boring is made between the system areas [see Appendix A, Figure A101.1(1)].
403.1.2 Location.
Each borehole shall be accurately located and referenced to the vertical elevation and horizontal reference points. Reports of boring location shall either be drawn to scale or have the horizontal dimensions clearly indicated between the borings and the horizontal reference point.
403.1.3 Soil description.
Soil profile descriptions shall be written for all borings. The thickness in inches (mm) of the different soil horizons observed shall be indicated. Horizons shall be differentiated on the basis of color, texture, soil mottles or bedrock. Depths shall be measured from the ground surface.
403.1.4 Soil mottles.
Seasonal or periodic soil saturation zones shall be estimated at the highest level of soil mottles. The code official shall require, where deemed necessary, a detailed description of the soil mottling on a marginal site. The abundance, size, contrast and color of the soil mottles shall be described in the following manner:Abundance shall be described as “few” if the mottled color occupies less than 2 percent of the exposed surface; “common” if the mottled color occupies from 2 to 20 percent of the exposed surface; or “many” if the mottled color occupies more than 20 percent of the exposed surface. Size refers to length of the mottle measured along the longest dimension and shall be described as “fine” if the mottle is less than 0.196 inch (5 mm); medium if the mottle is from 0.196 inch to 1.590 inches (5 mm to 40 mm); or coarse if the mottle is larger than 1.590 inches (40 mm). Contrast refers to the difference in color between the soil mottle and the background color of the soil and is described as “faint” if the mottle is evident but recognizable with close examination; “distinct” if the mottle is readily seen but not striking; or “prominent” if the mottle is obvious and one of the outstanding features of the horizon. The color(s) of the mottle(s) shall be indicated.
403.1.5 Observed ground water.
The depth to ground water, if present, shall be reported. Observed ground water shall be reported at the level that ground water reaches in the soil borehole or the highest level of sidewall seepage into the boring. Measurements shall be made from ground level. Soil located above the water level in the boring shall be checked for the presence of soil mottles.
403.2 Color patterns not indicative of soil saturation.
The following soil conditions shall be reported, but shall not be interpreted as color patterns caused by wetness or saturation. Soil profiles with an abrupt textural change with finer-textured soils overlying more than 4 feet (1219 mm) of unmottled, loamy sand or coarser soils can have a mottled zone for the finer textured material. Where the mottled zone is less than 12 inches (305 mm) thick and located immediately above the textural change, a soil absorption system shall be permitted in the loamy sand or coarser material below the mottled layer. The site shall be considered to be unsuitable where any soil mottles occur within the sandy material. The code official shall consider certain coarse sandy loam soils to be included as a coarse material.
403.2.1 Other soil color patterns.
Soil mottles occur that are not caused by seasonal or periodic soil saturation zones. Examples of such soil conditions not limited by enumeration are soil mottles formed from residual sandstone deposits; soil mottles formed from uneven weathering of glacially deposited material or glacially deposited material that is naturally gray in color, including any concretionary material in various stages of decomposition; deposits of lime in a profile derived from highly calcareous parent material; light-colored silt coats deposited on soil bed faces; and soil mottles usually vertically oriented along old or decayed root channels with a dark organic stain usually present in the center of the mottled area.
403.2.2 Reporting exceptions.
The site evaluator shall report any mottled soil condition. The observation of soil mottles not caused by soil saturation shall be reported. On request, the code official shall make a determination of the acceptability of the site.
403.3 Bedrock.
The depth of the bedrock, except sandstone, shall be established at the depth in a soil boring where more than 50 percent of the weathered-in-place material is consolidated. Sandstone bedrock shall be established at the depth where an increase in resistance to penetration of a knife blade occurs.
403.4 Alluvial and colluvial deposits.
Subsurface soil absorption systems shall not be placed in alluvial and colluvial deposits with shallow depths, extended periods of saturation or possible flooding.
Section 404 Percolation or permeability evaluation
404.1 General.
The permeability of the soil in the proposed absorption system shall be determined by percolation tests or permeability evaluation.
404.2 Percolation tests and procedures.
Not less than three percolation tests in each system area shall be conducted. The holes shall be spaced uniformly in relation to the bottom depth of the proposed absorption system. More percolation tests shall be made where necessary, depending on system design.
404.2.1 Percolation test hole.
The test hole shall be dug or bored. The test hole shall have vertical sides and a horizontal dimension of 4 inches to 8 inches (102 mm to 203 mm). The bottom and sides of the hole shall be scratched with a sharp-pointed instrument to expose the natural soil. Loose material shall be removed from the hole, and the bottom shall be covered with 2 inches (51 mm) of gravel or coarse sand.
404.2.2 Test procedure, sandy soils.
The hole shall be filled with clear water to not less than 12 inches (305 mm) above the bottom of the hole for tests in sandy soils. The time for this amount of water to seep away shall be determined and this procedure shall be repeated if the water from the second filling of the hole seeps away in 10 minutes or less. The test shall proceed as follows: Water shall be added to a point not more than 6 inches (152 mm) above the gravel or coarse sand. Thereupon, from a fixed reference point, water levels shall be measured at 10-minute intervals for a period of 1 hour. Where 6 inches (152 mm) of water seeps away in less than 10 minutes, a shorter interval between measurements shall be used, but the water depth shall not exceed 6 inches (152 mm) in any case. Where 6 inches (152 mm) of water seeps away in less than 2 minutes, the test shall be stopped and a rate of less than 3 minutes per inch (7.2 s/mm) shall be reported. The final water level drop shall be used to calculate the percolation rate. Soils not meeting the requirements of this section shall be tested in accordance with Section 404.2.3.
404.2.3 Test procedure, other soils.
The hole shall be filled with clear water, and a minimum water depth of 12 inches (305 mm) shall be maintained above the bottom of the hole for a 4-hour period by refilling whenever necessary or by use of an automatic siphon. Water remaining in the hole after 4 hours shall not be removed. Thereafter, the soil shall be allowed to swell not less than 16 hours or more than 30 hours. Immediately after the soil swelling period, the measurements for determining the percolation rate shall be made as follows: Any soil sloughed into the hole shall be removed, and the water level shall be adjusted to 6 inches (152 mm) above the gravel or coarse sand. Thereupon, from a fixed reference point, the water level shall be measured at 30-minute intervals for a period of 4 hours, unless two successive water level drops do not vary by more than 1/16 inch (1.59 mm). Not less than three water level drops shall be observed and recorded. The hole shall be filled with clear water to a point not more than 6 inches (152 mm) above the gravel or coarse sand whenever it becomes nearly empty. The water level shall not be adjusted during the three measurement periods except to the limits of the last measured water level drop. Where the first 6 inches (152 mm) of water seeps away in less than 30 minutes, the test shall be performed again for a period of 1 hour with measurements performed every 10 minutes. The water depth shall not exceed 5 inches (127 mm) at any time during the measurement period. The drop that occurs during the final measurement period shall be used in calculating the percolation rate.
404.2.4 Mechanical test equipment.
Mechanical percolation test equipment shall be of an approved type.
404.3 Permeability evaluation.
Soil shall be evaluated for estimated percolation based on structure and texture in accordance with accepted soil evaluation practices. Borings shall be made in accordance with Section 404.2 for evaluating the soil.
Section 405 Soil verification
405.1 Verification.
Where required by the code official, depth to soil mottles, depth to high ground water, soil textures, depth to bedrock and land slope shall be verified by the code official. The code official shall require, where necessary, backhoe pits to be provided for verification of soil boring data. Where required by the code official, the results of percolation tests or permeability evaluation shall be subject to verification. The code official shall require, where necessary, that percolation tests be conducted under supervision. Where the natural soil condition has been altered by filling or other methods used to improve wet areas, the code official shall require, where necessary, observation of high ground water levels under saturated soil conditions. Detailed soil maps, or other adequate information, shall be used for determining estimated percolation rates and other soil characteristics.
405.2 Monitoring ground water levels.
A property owner or developer shall have the option to provide documentation that soil mottling or other color patterns at a particular site are not an indication of seasonally saturated soil conditions of high ground water levels. Direct observation shall be used to document ground water levels. Monitoring shall be in accordance with the procedures cited in Sections 405.2.1 through 405.2.6.
405.2.1 Precipitation.
Monitoring shall be performed at a time of the year when maximum ground water elevation occurs. In determining whether a near-normal season has occurred where sites are subject to broad regional water tables, such as large areas of sandy soils, the fluctuation over the several-year cycle shall be considered. In such cases, data obtained from the United States Geological Survey (USGS) shall be used to determine if a regional water table was at or near its normal level.
405.2.2 Artificial drainage.
Areas to be monitored shall be checked for drainage tile and open ditches that alter natural high ground water levels. Where such factors are involved, information on the location, design, ownership and maintenance responsibilities for such drainage shall be provided. Documentation shall be provided to show that the drainage network has an adequate outlet and will be maintained. Sites affected by agricultural drain tile shall not be acceptable for system installation.
405.2.3 Procedures.
The owner or the owner’s agent shall notify the code official in writing of the intent to monitor. Where necessary, the code official shall field check the monitoring once or more during the time of expected saturated soil conditions. Not less than three wells shall be monitored at a site for a proposed system and replacement. Where necessary, the code official shall require more than three monitoring sites, and the site evaluator shall be so advised in writing.
405.2.4 Monitoring well design.
Not less than two wells shall extend to a depth of not less than 6 feet (1829 mm) below the ground surface and shall be not less than 3 feet (914 mm) below the designed system depth. However, with layered mottled soil over permeable unmottled soil, not less than one well shall terminate within the mottled layer. Monitoring at greater depths shall be required, where necessary, due to site conditions. The site evaluator shall determine the depth of the monitoring wells for each specific site. Depths shall be approved. The monitoring well shall be a solid pipe installed in a bore hole. The pipe size shall be not less than 1 inch (25 mm) and not greater than 4 inches (102 mm). The bore hole shall be not less than 4 inches (102 mm) and not greater than 8 inches (203 mm) larger than the pipe (see Appendix A, Figure A101.1(2)).
405.2.5 Observations.
The first observation shall be made on or before [DATE]. Observations shall be made thereafter every 7 days or less until [DATE] or until the site is determined to be unacceptable, whichever occurs first. Where water is observed above the critical depth at any time, an observation shall be made 1 week later. Where water is present above the critical depth at both observations, monitoring shall cease and the site shall be considered unacceptable. Where water is not present above the critical depth at the second observation, monitoring shall continue until [DATE]. Where any two observations 7 days apart show the presence of water above the critical depth, the site shall be considered unacceptable and the code official shall be notified in writing. When rainfall of 0.5 inch (12.7 mm) or more occurs in a 24-hour period during monitoring, observations shall be made at more frequent intervals, where necessary.
405.2.6 Reporting data.
Where monitoring shows saturated conditions, the following data shall be submitted in writing: test locations; ground elevations at the wells; soil profile descriptions; soil series, if available from soil maps; dates observed; depths to observed water; and local precipitation data—monthly from [DATE] and daily during monitoring. Where monitoring discloses that the site is acceptable, the following data shall be submitted in writing: location and depth of test holes, ground elevations at the wells and soil profile descriptions; soil series, if available from soil maps; dates observed; results of observations; information on artificial drainage; and local precipitation data—monthly from [DATE] and daily during monitoring. A request to install a soil absorption system shall be made in accordance with Section 105.
Section 406 Site requirements
CDP
406.1 Soil absorption site location.
The surface grade of all soil absorption systems shall be located at a point lower than the surface grade of any nearby water well or reservoir on the same or adjoining property. Where this is not possible, the site shall be located so surface water drainage from the site is not directed toward a well or reservoir. The soil absorption system shall be located with a minimum horizontal distance between various elements as indicated in Table 406.1. Private sewage disposal systems in compacted areas, such as parking lots and driveways, are prohibited. Surface water shall be diverted away from any soil absorption site on the same or neighboring lots.
TABLE 406.1 MINIMUM HORIZONTAL SEPARATION DISTANCES FOR SOIL ABSORPTION SYSTEMS
ELEMENT
DISTANCE (feet)
Cistern 50
Habitable building, below-grade foundation 25
Habitable building, slab-on-grade 15
Lake, high-water mark 50
Lot line 5
Reservoir 50
Roadway ditches 10
Spring 100
Streams or watercourse 50
Swimming pool 15
Uninhabited building 10
Water main 50
Water service 10
Water well 50
For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm.
406.1.1 flood hazard areas.
CDP
The site shall be located outside of flood hazard areas.Exception: Where suitable sites outside of the flood hazard area are not available, it is permitted for the site to be located within the flood hazard area. The site shall be located to minimize the effects of inundation under conditions of the design flood.
406.2 Ground water, bedrock or slowly permeable soils.
There shall be not less than 3 feet (914 mm) of soil between the bottom of the soil absorption system and high ground water or bedrock. Soil with a percolation rate of 60 minutes per 1 inch (25 mm) or faster shall exist for the depth of the proposed soil absorption system and not less than 3 feet (914 mm) below the proposed bottom of the soil absorption system. There shall be 56 inches (1422 mm) of suitable soil from original grade for a conventional soil absorption system.
406.3 Percolation rate, trench or bed.
A subsurface soil absorption system of the trench or bed type shall not be installed where the percolation rate for any one of the three tests is slower than 60 minutes for water to fall 1 inch (25 mm). The slowest percolation rate shall be used to determine the absorption area.
406.4 Percolation rate, seepage pit.
Percolation tests shall be made in each horizon penetrated below the inlet pipe for a seepage pit. Soil strata in which the percolation rates are slower than 30 minutes per 1 inch (25 mm) shall not be included in computing the absorption area. The slowest percolation rate shall be used to determine the absorption area.
406.5 Soil maps.
Where a parcel of land consists entirely of soils with very severe or severe limitations for on-site liquid waste disposal as determined by use of a detailed soil map and supporting data, that map and supporting data shall be permitted to be used as a basis for denial for an on-site waste disposal system. However, the property owner shall be permitted to present evidence that a suitable site for an on-site liquid-waste disposal system does exist.
406.6 Filled area.
A soil absorption system shall not be installed in a filled area unless written approval is received.
406.6.1 Placement of fill.
The approval of a conventional soil absorption system shall be based on evidence indicating its conformance to code requirements for area, percolation and elevation.
406.6.2 Bedrock.
Where the original soil texture is sand or loamy sand, and the site has not less than 30 inches (762 mm) and not greater than 56 inches (1422 mm) of soil over bedrock, the fill shall be the same or coarser soil texture as the natural soil. Coarser fill material shall not be coarser than medium sand. Fill material shall not be finer than the natural soil.
406.6.3 High ground water.
Sites with less than 56 inches (1422 mm) of soil over high ground water or estimated high ground water, where the original soil texture is sand or loamy sand, are permitted to be filled in accordance with Section 406.6.1 or
406.6.2.
406.6.4 Natural soil.
Sites with soils finer than sand or loamy sand shall not be approved for systems in fill.
406.6.5 Monitoring.
Sites that will have 36 inches (762 mm) or less of soil above high ground water after the top soil is removed shall be monitored for high ground water levels in the filled area in accordance with Section 405.2.
406.6.6 Inspection of fill.
Placement of the fill material shall be inspected by the code official.
406.6.7 Design requirements.
Filled areas shall be large enough to accommodate a shallow trench system and a replacement system. The site of the area to be filled shall be determined by the percolation rate of the natural soil and use of the building. Where any portion of the trench system or its replacement is in the fill, the fill shall extend 20 feet (6096 mm) beyond all sides of both systems before the slope begins. Soil borings and percolation tests shall be conducted before filling to determine soil textures and depth to high ground water or bedrock. Vegetation and topsoil shall be removed prior to filling. Slopes at the edge of the filled areas shall have a maximum ratio of one unit vertical to three units horizontal (33 percent slope), provided that the 20-foot (6096 mm) separating distance is maintained (see Appendix A, Figure A101.1(3)).
406.7 Altering slopes.
Areas with slopes exceeding those specified in Section 402.1 shall not be used unless graded and reshaped in accordance with Sections 406.7.1 through 406.7.3.
406.7.1 Site investigation.
Soil test data shall show that a sufficient depth of suitable soil material is present to provide the required amount of soil over bedrock and ground water after alteration. A complete site evaluation as specified in this section shall be performed after alteration of the site.
406.7.2 System location.
A soil absorption system shall be installed in the cut area of an altered site. A soil absorption system shall not be installed in the fill area of an altered site. The area of fill on an altered site is permitted to be used as a portion of the required 20-foot (6096 mm) separating distance from the crown of a critical slope. There shall be not less than 6 feet (1829 mm) of natural soil between the edge of a system area and the downslope side of the altered area.
406.7.3 Site protection.
Altered slope areas shall be positioned so that surface water drainage will be diverted away from the system areas. Disturbed areas shall be seeded or sodded with grass, and appropriate steps shall be taken to control erosion (see Figure 406.7.3).
FIGURE 406.7.3 CONCEPTUAL DESIGN SKETCH FOR ALTERING SLOPES For SI: 1 inch = 25.4 mm, 1 foot = 304.8 mm.
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
I-Codes • 2024
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.