======================================================================
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
======================================================================

Preface - International Private Sewage Disposal Code (IPSDC)
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
CODES
Dashboard Codes I-CodesUnited StatesGlobalStandardsCommentariesResourcesTopicsPublisherCollections
Search Notes
Notes and Bookmarks
Project Tags
Sharing History
CODE INTELLIGENCE
AI Navigator
Quick Consult
New
Q&A Database
Compliance Calculators FAVORITES
Add titles to your favorites to access them here
LEARN MORE Features & Pricing
Solutions for Teams
Exams
Increase Organizational Effectiveness with Digital Codes Premium Enterprise Join Webinar on 9/16 at 12pm CT
menu
Menu
​Search 2024
International Private Sewage Disposal Code (IPSDC)
Ask AI Navigator code questions
Recent Searches
Recently Viewed Titles
2024 International Private Sewage Disposal Code (IPSDC) 2024 International Code Council Performance Code (ICCPC) 2024 International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC) 2024 International Energy Conservation Code (IECC) 2024 International Existing Building Code (IEBC)
Search by:
Titles
Content
Graphics (Beta)
Subscribe (14 days left)
Premium Trial
personal
Codes
/
I-Codes
/
2024 International Private Sewage Disposal Code (IPSDC)
Preface
2024 International Private Sewage Disposal Code (IPSDC)
favorite_border
Version:
Aug 2024
Contents
Notes
Insights
Overview
Copyright
Preface
Formatting Changes to the 2024 International Codes
About the I-Codes
Introduction to the International Private Sewage Disposal Code
Arrangement and Format of the 2024 Ipsdc
Relocation of Text or Tables
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Chapter 2 Definitions
Chapter 3 General Regulations
Chapter 4 Site Evaluation and Requirements
Chapter 5 Materials
Chapter 6 Soil Absorption Systems
Chapter 7 Soil Absorption Systems
Chapter 8 Soil Absorption Systems
Chapter 9 Mound Systems
Chapter 10 Cesspools
Chapter 11 Residential Wastewater Systems
Chapter 12 Inspections
Chapter 13 Nonliquid Saturated Treatment Systems
Chapter 14 Referenced Standards
Appendix A System Layout Illustrations
Appendix B Tables for Pressure Distribution Systems
Appendix C Board of Appeals
Index
Content Updates—Version 2
Open Link Open Link In New Tab Copy Link
PREFACE
FORMATTING CHANGES TO THE 2024 INTERNATIONAL CODES The 2024 International Codes® (I-Codes®) have undergone substantial formatting changes as part of the digital transformation strategy of the International Code Council® (ICC®) to improve the user experience. The resulting product better aligns the print and PDF versions of the I-Codes with the ICC’s Digital Code content. Additional information can be found at iccsafe.org/design-updates.
Replacement of Marginal Markings with QR Codes
Through 2021, print editions of the I-Codes identified technical changes from prior code cycles with marginal markings [solid vertical lines for new text, deletion arrows (), asterisks for relocations (*)]. The 2024 I-Code print editions replace the marginal markings with QR codes to identify code changes more precisely.A QR code is placed at the beginning of any section that has undergone technical revision. If there is no QR code, there are no technical changes to that section.In the following example from the 2024 International Private Sewage Disposal Code® (IPSDC®), a QR code indicates there are changes to Section 109 from the 2021 IPSDC. Note that the change may occur in the main section or in one or more subsections of the main section. To see the code changes, the user need only scan the QR code with a smart device. If scanning a QR code is not an option, changes can be accessed by entering the 7-digit code beneath the QR code at the end of the following URL: qr.iccsafe.org/ (in the above example, “qr.iccsafe.org/1177b2d”). Those viewing the code book via PDF can click on the QR code.All methods take the user to the appropriate section on ICC’s Digital Codes website, where technical changes from the prior cycle can be viewed. Digital Codes Premium subscribers who are logged in will be automatically directed to the Premium view. All other users will be directed to the Digital Codes Basic free view. Both views show new code language in blue text along with deletion arrows for deleted text and relocation markers for relocated text.Digital Codes Premium offers additional ways to enhance code compliance research, including revision histories, commentary by code experts and an advanced search function. A full list of features can be found at
codes.iccsafe.org/premium-features.
ABOUT THE I-CODES The 2024 I-Codes, published by the ICC, are 15 fully compatible titles intended to establish provisions that adequately protect public health, safety and welfare; that do not unnecessarily increase construction costs; that do not restrict the use of new materials, products or methods of construction; and that do not give preferential treatment to particular types or classes of materials, products or methods of construction.The I-Codes are updated on a 3-year cycle to allow for new construction methods and technologies to be incorporated into the codes. Alternative materials, designs and methods not specifically addressed in the I-Code can be approved by the building official where the proposed materials, designs or methods comply with the intent of the provisions of the code.The I-Codes are used as the basis of laws and regulations in communities across the US and in other countries. They are also used in a variety of nonregulatory settings, including: Voluntary compliance programs. The insurance industry. Certification and credentialing for building design, construction and safety professionals. Certification of building and construction-related products. Facilities management. “Best practices” benchmarks for designers and builders. College, university and professional school textbooks and curricula. Reference works related to building design and construction.
Code Development Process
The code development process regularly provides an international forum for building professionals to discuss requirements for building design, construction methods, safety, performance, technological advances and new products. Proposed changes to the I-Codes, submitted by code enforcement officials, industry representatives, design professionals and other interested parties are deliberated through an open code development process in which all interested and affected parties may participate.Openness, transparency, balance, due process and consensus are the guiding principles of both the ICC Code Development Process and OMB Circular A-119, which governs the federal government’s use of private-sector standards. The ICC process is open to anyone without cost. Remote participation is available through cdpAccess®, the ICC’s cloud-based app.In order to ensure that organizations with a direct and material interest in the codes have a voice in the process, the ICC has developed partnerships with key industry segments that support the ICC’s important public safety mission. Some code development committee members were nominated by the following industry partners and approved by the ICC Board: American Gas Association (AGA) American Institute of Architects (AIA) American Society of Plumbing Engineers (ASPE) International Association of Fire Chiefs (IAFC) National Association of Home Builders (NAHB) National Association of State Fire Marshals (NASFM) National Council of Structural Engineers Association (NCSEA) National Multifamily Housing Council (NMHC) Plumbing Heating and Cooling Contractors (PHCC) Pool and Hot Tub Alliance (PHTA), formerly The Association of Pool and Spa Professionals (APSP) Code development committees evaluate and make recommendations regarding proposed changes to the codes. Their recommendations are then subject to public comment and council-wide votes. The ICC’s governmental members—public safety officials who have no financial or business interest in the outcome—cast the final votes on proposed changes.The I-Codes are subject to change through future code development cycles and by any governmental entity that enacts the code into law. For more information regarding the code development process, contact the Codes and Standards Development Department of the ICC at
iccsafe.org/products-and-services/i-codes/code-development/.While the I-Code development procedure is thorough and comprehensive, the ICC, its members and those participating in the development of the codes expressly disclaim any liability resulting from the publication or use of the I-Codes, or from compliance or noncompliance with their provisions. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, IMPLIED, EXPRESSED OR STATUTORY, IS GIVEN WITH RESPECT TO THE I-CODES. The ICC does not have the power or authority to police or enforce compliance with the contents of the I-Codes.
Code Development Committee Responsibilities (Letter Designations in Front of Section Numbers)
In each cycle, proposed changes are considered by the Code Development Committee assigned to a specific code or subject matter. Committee Action Hearings result in recommendations regarding a proposal to the voting membership. Where changes to a code section are not considered by that code’s own committee, the code section is preceded by a bracketed letter designation identifying a different committee. Bracketed letter designations for the I-Code committees are: [A] = Administrative Code Development Committee [BE] = IBC—Egress Code Development Committee [BF] = IBC—Fire Safety Code Development Committee [BG] = IBC—General Code Development Committee [BS] = IBC—Structural Code Development Committee [E] = Developed under the ICC’s Standard Development Process [EB] = International Existing Building Code Development Committee [F] = International Fire Code Development Committee [FG] = International Fuel Gas Code Development Committee [M] = International Mechanical Code Development Committee [P] = International Plumbing Code Development Committee [SP] = International Swimming Pool and Spa Code Development Committee For the development of the 2027 edition of the I-Codes, the ICC Board of Directors approved a standing motion from the Board Committee on the Long-Term Code Development Process to revise the code development cycle to incorporate two committee action hearings for each code group. This change expands the current process from two independent 1-year cycles to a single continuous 3- year cycle. There will be two groups of code development committees and they will meet in separate years. The current groups will be reworked. With the energy provisions of the International Energy Conservation Code® (IECC®) and Chapter 11 of the International Residential Code® (IRC®) now moved to the Code Council’s Standards Development Process, the reduced volume of code changes will be distributed between Groups A and B.Code change proposals submitted for code sections that have a letter designation in front of them will be heard by the respective committee responsible for such code sections. Because different committees hold Committee Action Hearings in different years, proposals for most codes will be heard by committees in both the 2024 (Group A) and the 2025 (Group B) code development cycles. It is very important that anyone submitting code change proposals understands which code development committee is responsible for the section of the code that is the subject of the code change proposal.Please visit the ICC website at iccsafe.org/products-and-services/i-codes/code-development/current-code-development-cycle for further information on the Code Development Committee responsibilities as it becomes available.
Coordination of the I-Codes
The coordination of technical provisions allows the I-Codes to be used as a complete set of complementary documents. Individual codes can also be used in subsets or as stand-alone documents. Some technical provisions that are relevant to more than one subject area are duplicated in multiple model codes.
Italicized Terms
Words and terms defined in Chapter 2, Definitions, are italicized where they appear in code text and the Chapter 2 definitions apply. Although care has been taken to ensure applicable terms are italicized, there may be instances where a defined term has not been italicized or where a term is italicized but the definition found in Chapter 2 is not applicable. For example, Chapter 2 of the International Building Code® (IBC®) contains a definition for “Listed” that is applicable to equipment, products and services. The term “listed” is also used in that code to refer to a list of items within the code or within a referenced document. For the latter, the Chapter 2 definition would not be applicable.​
Adoption of International Code Council Codes and Standards
The International Code Council maintains a copyright in all of its codes and standards. Maintaining copyright allows the Code Council to fund its mission through sales of books in both print and digital formats. The Code Council welcomes incorporation by reference of its codes and standards by jurisdictions that recognize and acknowledge the Code Council’s copyright in the codes and standards, and further acknowledge the substantial shared value of the public/private partnership for code development between jurisdictions and the Code Council. By making its codes and standards available for incorporation by reference, the Code Council does not waive its copyright in its codes and standards.The Code Council’s codes and standards may only be adopted by incorporation by reference in an ordinance passed by the governing body of the jurisdiction. “Incorporation by reference” means that in the adopting ordinance, the governing body cites only the title, edition, relevant sections or subsections (where applicable), and publishing information of the model code or standard, and the actual text of the model code or standard is not included in the ordinance (see graphic, “Adoption of International Code Council Codes and Standards”). The Code Council does not consent to the reproduction of the text of its codes or standards in any ordinance. If the governing body enacts any changes, only the text of those changes or amendments may be included in the ordinance. The Code Council also recognizes the need for jurisdictions to make laws accessible to the public. Accordingly, all I-Codes and I-Standards, along with the laws of many jurisdictions, are available to view for free at
codes.iccsafe.org/codes/i-codes. These documents may also be purchased, in both digital and print versions, at shop.iccsafe.org.To facilitate adoption, some I-Code sections contain blanks for fill-in information that needs to be supplied by the adopting jurisdiction as part of the adoption legislation. For example, the IPSDC contains:Section 101.1. Insert: [NAME OF JURISDICTION]Section 113.4. Insert: [OFFENSE, DOLLAR AMOUNT, NUMBER OF DAYS]Section 405.2.5. Insert: [DATE IN THREE LOCATIONS]Section 405.2.6. Insert: [DATE IN TWO LOCATIONS]For further information or assistance with adoption, including a sample ordinance, jurisdictions should contact the Code Council at incorporation@iccsafe.org.For a list of frequently asked questions (FAQs) addressing a range of foundational topics about the adoption of model codes by jurisdictions and to learn more about the Code Council’s code adoption resources, scan the QR code or visit
iccsafe.org/code-adoption-resources.
INTRODUCTION TO THE INTERNATIONAL PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL CODE The International Private Sewage Disposal Code® (IPSDC®) establishes minimum requirements for sewage disposal systems using prescriptive and performance-related provisions. It is founded on broad-based principles that make possible the use of new materials and new sewage disposal designs.The IPSDC is a model code that regulates minimum requirements for the installation of new or the alteration of existing private sewage disposal systems. Where a building cannot be served by a public sewer system, the building site must be provided with a system for treating the wastewater generated from the use of plumbing fixtures in the building. The IPSDC addresses site evaluations, materials, various soil absorption systems, holding tanks, cesspools and on-site wastewater treatment systems. The IPSDC provides a total approach for the on-site, safe disposal of the waste flow discharged to the plumbing fixtures in a building.The IPSDC is a specification- (prescriptive-) oriented code with very few occurrences of performance-oriented text. The site soil must be evaluated in a prescribed manner to determine its ability to accept the waste flow. The chosen waste treatment method must be designed in a prescribed manner for the soil conditions at the building site, constructed using prescribed materials and installed according to prescribed dimensions. The
IPSDC sets forth the minimum acceptable requirements for private sewage disposal systems in order to protect humans and the environment from insanitary conditions that would develop if waste flows were not rendered harmless.
ARRANGEMENT AND FORMAT OF THE 2024 IPSDC The format of the IPSDC allows each chapter to be devoted to a particular subject with the exception of Chapter 3, which contain subject matters that are not extensive enough to warrant their own independent chapter. The following table shows how the IPSDC is divided. The chapter synopses detail the scope and intent of the provisions of the IPSDC.
CHAPTER TOPICS
CHAPTERS
SUBJECTS
1
Scope and Administration
2
Definitions
3
General Regulations
4
Site Evaluation and Requirements
5
Materials
6
Soil Absorption Systems
7
Pressure Distribution Systems
8
Tanks
9
Mound Systems
10
Cesspools
11
Residential Wastewater Systems
12
Inspections
13
Nonliquid Saturated Treatment Systems
14
Referenced Standards
Appendix A
System Layout Illustrations
Appendix B
Tables for Pressure Distribution Systems
Appendix C
Board of Appeals
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration.
Chapter 1 establishes the limits of applicability of the code and describes how the code is to be applied and enforced. The provisions of Chapter 1 establish the authority and duties of the code official appointed by the authority having jurisdiction and also establish the rights and privileges of the design professional, contractor and property owner.
Chapter 2 Definitions.
Chapter 2 is the repository of the definitions of terms used in the body of the code. The user of the code should be familiar with and consult this chapter because the definitions are essential to the correct interpretation of the code and because the user may not be aware that a term is defined.
Chapter 3 General Regulations.
The content of Chapter 3 is often referred to as “miscellaneous,” rather than general regulations. Chapter 3 received that label because it is the only chapter in the code where requirements do not interrelate. If a requirement cannot be located in another chapter, it can be found in this chapter. Specific requirements concerning flood hazard areas are in this chapter.
Chapter 4 Site Evaluation and Requirements.
A private sewage disposal system has an effluent that cannot be directly discharged into waterways or open ponds. Soil of the right consistency and water content provides natural filtering and treatment of this discharge. Because soil conditions vary widely, even on the same building site, tests and inspections of the soils must be performed to evaluate the degree to which the soil can accept these liquids. The results of the tests provide necessary information to design an adequate private sewage disposal system. Chapter 4 provides the methods for evaluating the building site.
Chapter 5 Materials.
Private sewage disposal systems depend on the strength, quality and chemical resistance of the components that make up the system. To that end, the purpose of Chapter 5 is to specify the minimum material and component standards to ensure that the private sewage disposal system will correctly perform for its intended life.
Chapter 6 Soil Absorption Systems.
The design of soil absorption systems depends heavily on the result of the tests and evaluation of the site soil conditions required in Chapter 4. Where soil is less permeable, the area of the soil absorption must be large as compared to that required for soils that are highly permeable. The type of building that is being served by the private sewage disposal system also affects the size of the planned soil absorption area. Chapter 6 provides the methods for computing the required absorption area and details for the proper installation of the soil absorption systems.
Chapter 7 Pressure Distribution Systems.
Chapter 6 deals with gravity-type soil absorption systems or systems where the effluent is allowed to drain out of the distribution piping by gravity. Chapter 7 offers an alternative method of discharging the effluent into the ground by pressure means. As such, Chapter 7 provides the necessary details for designing the piping and pumping systems for pressure distribution systems.
Chapter 8 Tanks.
Tanks are an integral part of any private sewage disposal system, whether they serve as treatment (septic) tanks or merely just holding tanks for leveling the peaks in flow to the system. Where tanks are used for treatment, the dimensions, volume and location of internal features are very important to ensure that the solid wastes are kept within the tank so as to not clog the effluent distribution system. Where tanks are used for holding purposes, they must be sized large enough to accommodate the total of peak flows coming from a building. Chapter 8 provides the necessary requirements for tanks.
Chapter 9 Mound Systems.
Mound systems are another method for applying the effluent from a private sewage disposal system to the soil. This type of system may be advantageous in some localities due to the existing soil conditions. Chapter 9 has specific requirements for soil and site evaluations for mound systems.
Chapter 10 Cesspools.
Although prohibited from being installed as a permanent private sewage disposal system, cesspools may be necessary where permanent systems are under repair or are being built. Chapter 10 provides the details for constructing a cesspool.
Chapter 11 Residential Wastewater Systems.
Another method of private sewage disposal is a small wastewater treatment plant. Where permitted, these systems can discharge effluent directly to streams and rivers. Chapter 11 specifies the standard to which wastewater treatment plants must conform.
Chapter 12 Inspections.
The best soil and site analysis along with the best design will be rendered useless if the system is not installed according to the plans for the system. Chapter 12 provides requirements for inspection of private sewage disposal systems.
Chapter 13 Nonliquid Saturated Treatment Systems.
In some locations, water for the flushing of waste into and through a sanitary piping system is not available. For example, a toilet facility provided for a remote campground without running water would require such a system. Chapter 13 specifies the standard to which nonliquid saturated treatment systems must conform.
Chapter 14 Referenced Standards.
Chapter 14 lists all of the product and installation standards and codes that are referenced throughout Chapters 1 through 13 and includes identification of the promulgators and the section numbers in which the standards and codes are referenced. As stated in Section 102.10, these standards and codes become an enforceable part of the code (to the prescribed extent of the reference) as if printed in the body of the code.
Appendix A System Layout Illustrations.
Because each chapter of this code uses only words to describe requirements, illustrations can offer greater insight as to what the words mean. Appendix A has a number of illustrations referenced to specific sections of the code to help the reader gain a better understanding of the requirements of the code.
Appendix B Tables for Pressure Distribution Systems.
The design of a pressure distribution system is accomplished by the use of several complex formulas found in Chapter 7. Because a user of the code may not have the necessary experience to manipulate the formulas, a tabular approach for designing pressure distribution systems is provided in Appendix B.
Appendix C Board of Appeals.
Appendix C contains the provisions for appeal and the establishment of a board of appeals. The provisions include the application for an appeal, the makeup of the board of appeals and the conduct of the appeal process.
RELOCATION OF TEXT OR TABLES The following table indicates relocation of sections and tables in the 2024 edition of the IPSDC from the 2021 edition.
RELOCATIONS
2024 LOCATION
2021 LOCATION
104.2.2.4
105.3, 105.3.1
104.2.3
105.2
104.2.3.5
105.3.2
104.2.3.6
105.2.1
104.2.4
105.1
104.3
104.2
104.7.4
105.3.3
104.9
105.4
104.9.1
105.4.1
105
106
113
114
114
115
AI Navigator
Ask AI Navigator
Got a code question? Just ask. I’m here to help you figure it out — no jargon, no hassle. Ask
anything, and I’ll do my best to get you what you need.
Get Started with AI Navigator
I-Codes • 2024
​Ask code question
0/500
ICC AI Navigator Disclaimer
Subscribe to the Building Safety Journal
Subscribe
ICC Family of Solutions
Connect With Us
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
Contact Us
|
Accessibility Policy
COPYRIGHT © 2025 INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
For content printing within Digital Codes Premium, please utilize the section level printing controls available within the Premium toolbar for each section.